
Words of Christ in Red in ESV NT

Matthew 3:15
But Jesus answered him, “Let it be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness.” Then he consented. 
Matthew 4:4
But he answered, “It is written, “ ‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.’ ” 
Matthew 4:7
Jesus said to him, “Again it is written, ‘You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.’ ” 
Matthew 4:10
Then Jesus said to him, “Be gone, Satan! For it is written, “ ‘You shall worship the Lord your God and him only shall you serve.’ ” 
Matthew 4:17
From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.” 
Matthew 4:19
And he said to them, “Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.” 
Matthew 5:3
“Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 
Matthew 5:4
“Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. 
Matthew 5:5
“Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. 
Matthew 5:6
“Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. 
Matthew 5:7
“Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. 
Matthew 5:8
“Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. 
Matthew 5:9
“Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. 
Matthew 5:10
“Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness’ sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 
Matthew 5:11
“Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. 
Matthew 5:12
Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. 
Matthew 5:13
“You are the salt of the earth, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people’s feet. 
Matthew 5:14
“You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. 
Matthew 5:15
Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. 
Matthew 5:16
In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. 
Matthew 5:17
“Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them. 
Matthew 5:18
For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished. 
Matthew 5:19
Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. 
Matthew 5:20
For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. 
Matthew 5:21
“You have heard that it was said to those of old, ‘You shall not murder; and whoever murders will be liable to judgment.’ 
Matthew 5:22
But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment; whoever insults his brother will be liable to the council; and whoever says, ‘You fool!’ will be liable to the hell of fire. 
Matthew 5:23
So if you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you, 
Matthew 5:24
leave your gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. 
Matthew 5:25
Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are going with him to court, lest your accuser hand you over to the judge, and the judge to the guard, and you be put in prison. 
Matthew 5:26
Truly, I say to you, you will never get out until you have paid the last penny. 
Matthew 5:27
“You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall not commit adultery.’ 
Matthew 5:28
But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart. 
Matthew 5:29
If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown into hell. 
Matthew 5:30
And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell. 
Matthew 5:31
“It was also said, ‘Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce.’ 
Matthew 5:32
But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except on the ground of sexual immorality, makes her commit adultery, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. 
Matthew 5:33
“Again you have heard that it was said to those of old, ‘You shall not swear falsely, but shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn.’ 
Matthew 5:34
But I say to you, Do not take an oath at all, either by heaven, for it is the throne of God, 
Matthew 5:35
or by the earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King. 
Matthew 5:36
And do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black. 
Matthew 5:37
Let what you say be simply ‘Yes’ or ‘No’; anything more than this comes from evil. 
Matthew 5:38
“You have heard that it was said, ‘An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.’ 
Matthew 5:39
But I say to you, Do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. 
Matthew 5:40
And if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. 
Matthew 5:41
And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles. 
Matthew 5:42
Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you. 
Matthew 5:43
“You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’ 
Matthew 5:44
But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, 
Matthew 5:45
so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. 
Matthew 5:46
For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? 
Matthew 5:47
And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? 
Matthew 5:48
You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect. 
Matthew 6:1
“Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. 
Matthew 6:2
“Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward. 
Matthew 6:3
But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, 
Matthew 6:4
so that your giving may be in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you. 
Matthew 6:5
“And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites. For they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward. 
Matthew 6:6
But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you. 
Matthew 6:7
“And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words. 
Matthew 6:8
Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him. 
Matthew 6:9
Pray then like this: “Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. 
Matthew 6:10
Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. 
Matthew 6:11
Give us this day our daily bread, 
Matthew 6:12
and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. 
Matthew 6:13
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. 
Matthew 6:14
For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you, 
Matthew 6:15
but if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. 
Matthew 6:16
“And when you fast, do not look gloomy like the hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces that their fasting may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward. 
Matthew 6:17
But when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, 
Matthew 6:18
that your fasting may not be seen by others but by your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you. 
Matthew 6:19
“Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, 
Matthew 6:20
but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves do not break in and steal. 
Matthew 6:21
For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. 
Matthew 6:22
“The eye is the lamp of the body. So, if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light, 
Matthew 6:23
but if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is darkness, how great is the darkness! 
Matthew 6:24
“No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money. 
Matthew 6:25
“Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? 
Matthew 6:26
Look at the birds of the air: they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? 
Matthew 6:27
And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life? 
Matthew 6:28
And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin, 
Matthew 6:29
yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. 
Matthew 6:30
But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? 
Matthew 6:31
Therefore do not be anxious, saying, ‘What shall we eat?’ or ‘What shall we drink?’ or ‘What shall we wear?’ 
Matthew 6:32
For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. 
Matthew 6:33
But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. 
Matthew 6:34
“Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. 
Matthew 7:1
“Judge not, that you be not judged. 
Matthew 7:2
For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be measured to you. 
Matthew 7:3
Why do you see the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? 
Matthew 7:4
Or how can you say to your brother, ‘Let me take the speck out of your eye,’ when there is the log in your own eye? 
Matthew 7:5
You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother’s eye. 
Matthew 7:6
“Do not give dogs what is holy, and do not throw your pearls before pigs, lest they trample them underfoot and turn to attack you. 
Matthew 7:7
“Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you. 
Matthew 7:8
For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. 
Matthew 7:9
Or which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone? 
Matthew 7:10
Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent? 
Matthew 7:11
If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him! 
Matthew 7:12
“So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets. 
Matthew 7:13
“Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many. 
Matthew 7:14
For the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few. 
Matthew 7:15
“Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep’s clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. 
Matthew 7:16
You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles? 
Matthew 7:17
So, every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. 
Matthew 7:18
A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. 
Matthew 7:19
Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. 
Matthew 7:20
Thus you will recognize them by their fruits. 
Matthew 7:21
“Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. 
Matthew 7:22
On that day many will say to me, ‘Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name?’ 
Matthew 7:23
And then will I declare to them, ‘I never knew you; depart from me, you workers of lawlessness.’ 
Matthew 7:24
“Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. 
Matthew 7:25
And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded on the rock. 
Matthew 7:26
And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. 
Matthew 7:27
And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it.” 
Matthew 8:3
And Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, “I will; be clean.” And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. 
Matthew 8:4
And Jesus said to him, “See that you say nothing to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a proof to them.” 
Matthew 8:7
And he said to him, “I will come and heal him.” 
Matthew 8:10
When Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who followed him, “Truly, I tell you, with no one in Israel have I found such faith. 
Matthew 8:11
I tell you, many will come from east and west and recline at table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, 
Matthew 8:12
while the sons of the kingdom will be thrown into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.” 
Matthew 8:13
And to the centurion Jesus said, “Go; let it be done for you as you have believed.” And the servant was healed at that very moment. 
Matthew 8:20
And Jesus said to him, “Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.” 
Matthew 8:22
And Jesus said to him, “Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead.” 
Matthew 8:26
And he said to them, “Why are you afraid, O you of little faith?” Then he rose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. 
Matthew 8:32
And he said to them, “Go.” So they came out and went into the pigs, and behold, the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea and drowned in the waters. 
Matthew 9:2
And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic, lying on a bed. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, “Take heart, my son; your sins are forgiven.” 
Matthew 9:4
But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, “Why do you think evil in your hearts? 
Matthew 9:5
For which is easier, to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Rise and walk’? 
Matthew 9:6
But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins”—he then said to the paralytic—“Rise, pick up your bed and go home.” 
Matthew 9:9
As Jesus passed on from there, he saw a man called Matthew sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him, “Follow me.” And he rose and followed him. 
Matthew 9:12
But when he heard it, he said, “Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. 
Matthew 9:13
Go and learn what this means, ‘I desire mercy, and not sacrifice.’ For I came not to call the righteous, but sinners.” 
Matthew 9:15
And Jesus said to them, “Can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast. 
Matthew 9:16
No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch tears away from the garment, and a worse tear is made. 
Matthew 9:17
Neither is new wine put into old wineskins. If it is, the skins burst and the wine is spilled and the skins are destroyed. But new wine is put into fresh wineskins, and so both are preserved.” 
Matthew 9:22
Jesus turned, and seeing her he said, “Take heart, daughter; your faith has made you well.” And instantly the woman was made well. 
Matthew 9:24
he said, “Go away, for the girl is not dead but sleeping.” And they laughed at him. 
Matthew 9:28
When he entered the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus said to them, “Do you believe that I am able to do this?” They said to him, “Yes, Lord.” 
Matthew 9:29
Then he touched their eyes, saying, “According to your faith be it done to you.” 
Matthew 9:30
And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly warned them, “See that no one knows about it.” 
Matthew 9:37
Then he said to his disciples, “The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few; 
Matthew 9:38
therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.” 
Matthew 10:5
These twelve Jesus sent out, instructing them, “Go nowhere among the Gentiles and enter no town of the Samaritans, 
Matthew 10:6
but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. 
Matthew 10:7
And proclaim as you go, saying, ‘The kingdom of heaven is at hand.’ 
Matthew 10:8
Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons. You received without paying; give without pay. 
Matthew 10:9
Acquire no gold or silver or copper for your belts, 
Matthew 10:10
no bag for your journey, or two tunics or sandals or a staff, for the laborer deserves his food. 
Matthew 10:11
And whatever town or village you enter, find out who is worthy in it and stay there until you depart. 
Matthew 10:12
As you enter the house, greet it. 
Matthew 10:13
And if the house is worthy, let your peace come upon it, but if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you. 
Matthew 10:14
And if anyone will not receive you or listen to your words, shake off the dust from your feet when you leave that house or town. 
Matthew 10:15
Truly, I say to you, it will be more bearable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah than for that town. 
Matthew 10:16
“Behold, I am sending you out as sheep in the midst of wolves, so be wise as serpents and innocent as doves. 
Matthew 10:17
Beware of men, for they will deliver you over to courts and flog you in their synagogues, 
Matthew 10:18
and you will be dragged before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness before them and the Gentiles. 
Matthew 10:19
When they deliver you over, do not be anxious how you are to speak or what you are to say, for what you are to say will be given to you in that hour. 
Matthew 10:20
For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you. 
Matthew 10:21
Brother will deliver brother over to death, and the father his child, and children will rise against parents and have them put to death, 
Matthew 10:22
and you will be hated by all for my name’s sake. But the one who endures to the end will be saved. 
Matthew 10:23
When they persecute you in one town, flee to the next, for truly, I say to you, you will not have gone through all the towns of Israel before the Son of Man comes. 
Matthew 10:24
“A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master. 
Matthew 10:25
It is enough for the disciple to be like his teacher, and the servant like his master. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebul, how much more will they malign those of his household. 
Matthew 10:26
“So have no fear of them, for nothing is covered that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known. 
Matthew 10:27
What I tell you in the dark, say in the light, and what you hear whispered, proclaim on the housetops. 
Matthew 10:28
And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. 
Matthew 10:29
Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your Father. 
Matthew 10:30
But even the hairs of your head are all numbered. 
Matthew 10:31
Fear not, therefore; you are of more value than many sparrows. 
Matthew 10:32
So everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven, 
Matthew 10:33
but whoever denies me before men, I also will deny before my Father who is in heaven. 
Matthew 10:34
“Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace, but a sword. 
Matthew 10:35
For I have come to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. 
Matthew 10:36
And a person’s enemies will be those of his own household. 
Matthew 10:37
Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. 
Matthew 10:38
And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. 
Matthew 10:39
Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. 
Matthew 10:40
“Whoever receives you receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me. 
Matthew 10:41
The one who receives a prophet because he is a prophet will receive a prophet’s reward, and the one who receives a righteous person because he is a righteous person will receive a righteous person’s reward. 
Matthew 10:42
And whoever gives one of these little ones even a cup of cold water because he is a disciple, truly, I say to you, he will by no means lose his reward.” 
Matthew 11:4
And Jesus answered them, “Go and tell John what you hear and see: 
Matthew 11:5
the blind receive their sight and the lame walk, lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them. 
Matthew 11:6
And blessed is the one who is not offended by me.” 
Matthew 11:7
As they went away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John: “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? 
Matthew 11:8
What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in kings’ houses. 
Matthew 11:9
What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet. 
Matthew 11:10
This is he of whom it is written, “ ‘Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.’ 
Matthew 11:11
Truly, I say to you, among those born of women there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. 
Matthew 11:12
From the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence, and the violent take it by force. 
Matthew 11:13
For all the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John, 
Matthew 11:14
and if you are willing to accept it, he is Elijah who is to come. 
Matthew 11:15
He who has ears to hear, let him hear. 
Matthew 11:16
“But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces and calling to their playmates, 
Matthew 11:17
“ ‘We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge, and you did not mourn.’ 
Matthew 11:18
For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, ‘He has a demon.’ 
Matthew 11:19
The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, ‘Look at him! A glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’ Yet wisdom is justified by her deeds.” 
Matthew 11:21
“Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. 
Matthew 11:22
But I tell you, it will be more bearable on the day of judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you. 
Matthew 11:23
And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be brought down to Hades. For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. 
Matthew 11:24
But I tell you that it will be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you.” 
Matthew 11:25
At that time Jesus declared, “I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children; 
Matthew 11:26
yes, Father, for such was your gracious will. 
Matthew 11:27
All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. 
Matthew 11:28
Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. 
Matthew 11:29
Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. 
Matthew 11:30
For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.” 
Matthew 12:3
He said to them, “Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, and those who were with him: 
Matthew 12:4
how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the Presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests? 
Matthew 12:5
Or have you not read in the Law how on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are guiltless? 
Matthew 12:6
I tell you, something greater than the temple is here. 
Matthew 12:7
And if you had known what this means, ‘I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,’ you would not have condemned the guiltless. 
Matthew 12:8
For the Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath.” 
Matthew 12:11
He said to them, “Which one of you who has a sheep, if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out? 
Matthew 12:12
Of how much more value is a man than a sheep! So it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.” 
Matthew 12:13
Then he said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” And the man stretched it out, and it was restored, healthy like the other. 
Matthew 12:25
Knowing their thoughts, he said to them, “Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and no city or house divided against itself will stand. 
Matthew 12:26
And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand? 
Matthew 12:27
And if I cast out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges. 
Matthew 12:28
But if it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. 
Matthew 12:29
Or how can someone enter a strong man’s house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong man? Then indeed he may plunder his house. 
Matthew 12:30
Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters. 
Matthew 12:31
Therefore I tell you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven people, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven. 
Matthew 12:32
And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come. 
Matthew 12:33
“Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit. 
Matthew 12:34
You brood of vipers! How can you speak good, when you are evil? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. 
Matthew 12:35
The good person out of his good treasure brings forth good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure brings forth evil. 
Matthew 12:36
I tell you, on the day of judgment people will give account for every careless word they speak, 
Matthew 12:37
for by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.” 
Matthew 12:39
But he answered them, “An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. 
Matthew 12:40
For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. 
Matthew 12:41
The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here. 
Matthew 12:42
The queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is here. 
Matthew 12:43
“When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places seeking rest, but finds none. 
Matthew 12:44
Then it says, ‘I will return to my house from which I came.’ And when it comes, it finds the house empty, swept, and put in order. 
Matthew 12:45
Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there, and the last state of that person is worse than the first. So also will it be with this evil generation.” 
Matthew 12:48
But he replied to the man who told him, “Who is my mother, and who are my brothers?” 
Matthew 12:49
And stretching out his hand toward his disciples, he said, “Here are my mother and my brothers! 
Matthew 12:50
For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother.” 
Matthew 13:3
And he told them many things in parables, saying: “A sower went out to sow. 
Matthew 13:4
And as he sowed, some seeds fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured them. 
Matthew 13:5
Other seeds fell on rocky ground, where they did not have much soil, and immediately they sprang up, since they had no depth of soil, 
Matthew 13:6
but when the sun rose they were scorched. And since they had no root, they withered away. 
Matthew 13:7
Other seeds fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked them. 
Matthew 13:8
Other seeds fell on good soil and produced grain, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. 
Matthew 13:9
He who has ears, let him hear.” 
Matthew 13:11
And he answered them, “To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been given. 
Matthew 13:12
For to the one who has, more will be given, and he will have an abundance, but from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. 
Matthew 13:13
This is why I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. 
Matthew 13:14
Indeed, in their case the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled that says: “ ‘ “You will indeed hear but never understand, and you will indeed see but never perceive.” 
Matthew 13:15
For this people’s heart has grown dull, and with their ears they can barely hear, and their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them.’ 
Matthew 13:16
But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear. 
Matthew 13:17
For truly, I say to you, many prophets and righteous people longed to see what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear it. 
Matthew 13:18
“Hear then the parable of the sower: 
Matthew 13:19
When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what has been sown in his heart. This is what was sown along the path. 
Matthew 13:20
As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy, 
Matthew 13:21
yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away. 
Matthew 13:22
As for what was sown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and it proves unfruitful. 
Matthew 13:23
As for what was sown on good soil, this is the one who hears the word and understands it. He indeed bears fruit and yields, in one case a hundredfold, in another sixty, and in another thirty.” 
Matthew 13:24
He put another parable before them, saying, “The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field, 
Matthew 13:25
but while his men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat and went away. 
Matthew 13:26
So when the plants came up and bore grain, then the weeds appeared also. 
Matthew 13:27
And the servants of the master of the house came and said to him, ‘Master, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have weeds?’ 
Matthew 13:28
He said to them, ‘An enemy has done this.’ So the servants said to him, ‘Then do you want us to go and gather them?’ 
Matthew 13:29
But he said, ‘No, lest in gathering the weeds you root up the wheat along with them. 
Matthew 13:30
Let both grow together until the harvest, and at harvest time I will tell the reapers, Gather the weeds first and bind them in bundles to be burned, but gather the wheat into my barn.’ ” 
Matthew 13:31
He put another parable before them, saying, “The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his field. 
Matthew 13:32
It is the smallest of all seeds, but when it has grown it is larger than all the garden plants and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and make nests in its branches.” 
Matthew 13:33
He told them another parable. “The kingdom of heaven is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, till it was all leavened.” 
Matthew 13:37
He answered, “The one who sows the good seed is the Son of Man. 
Matthew 13:38
The field is the world, and the good seed is the sons of the kingdom. The weeds are the sons of the evil one, 
Matthew 13:39
and the enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are angels. 
Matthew 13:40
Just as the weeds are gathered and burned with fire, so will it be at the end of the age. 
Matthew 13:41
The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and all law-breakers, 
Matthew 13:42
and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
Matthew 13:43
Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears, let him hear. 
Matthew 13:44
“The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and covered up. Then in his joy he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field. 
Matthew 13:45
“Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls, 
Matthew 13:46
who, on finding one pearl of great value, went and sold all that he had and bought it. 
Matthew 13:47
“Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was thrown into the sea and gathered fish of every kind. 
Matthew 13:48
When it was full, men drew it ashore and sat down and sorted the good into containers but threw away the bad. 
Matthew 13:49
So it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come out and separate the evil from the righteous 
Matthew 13:50
and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
Matthew 13:51
“Have you understood all these things?” They said to him, “Yes.” 
Matthew 13:52
And he said to them, “Therefore every scribe who has been trained for the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house, who brings out of his treasure what is new and what is old.” 
Matthew 13:57
And they took offense at him. But Jesus said to them, “A prophet is not without honor except in his hometown and in his own household.” 
Matthew 14:16
But Jesus said, “They need not go away; you give them something to eat.” 
Matthew 14:18
And he said, “Bring them here to me.” 
Matthew 14:27
But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, “Take heart; it is I. Do not be afraid.” 
Matthew 14:29
He said, “Come.” So Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water and came to Jesus. 
Matthew 14:31
Jesus immediately reached out his hand and took hold of him, saying to him, “O you of little faith, why did you doubt?” 
Matthew 15:3
He answered them, “And why do you break the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition? 
Matthew 15:4
For God commanded, ‘Honor your father and your mother,’ and, ‘Whoever reviles father or mother must surely die.’ 
Matthew 15:5
But you say, ‘If anyone tells his father or his mother, “What you would have gained from me is given to God,” 
Matthew 15:6
he need not honor his father.’ So for the sake of your tradition you have made void the word of God. 
Matthew 15:7
You hypocrites! Well did Isaiah prophesy of you, when he said: 
Matthew 15:8
“ ‘This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me; 
Matthew 15:9
in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.’ ” 
Matthew 15:10
And he called the people to him and said to them, “Hear and understand: 
Matthew 15:11
it is not what goes into the mouth that defiles a person, but what comes out of the mouth; this defiles a person.” 
Matthew 15:13
He answered, “Every plant that my heavenly Father has not planted will be rooted up. 
Matthew 15:14
Let them alone; they are blind guides. And if the blind lead the blind, both will fall into a pit.” 
Matthew 15:16
And he said, “Are you also still without understanding? 
Matthew 15:17
Do you not see that whatever goes into the mouth passes into the stomach and is expelled? 
Matthew 15:18
But what comes out of the mouth proceeds from the heart, and this defiles a person. 
Matthew 15:19
For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander. 
Matthew 15:20
These are what defile a person. But to eat with unwashed hands does not defile anyone.” 
Matthew 15:24
He answered, “I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.” 
Matthew 15:26
And he answered, “It is not right to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.” 
Matthew 15:28
Then Jesus answered her, “O woman, great is your faith! Be it done for you as you desire.” And her daughter was healed instantly. 
Matthew 15:32
Then Jesus called his disciples to him and said, “I have compassion on the crowd because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat. And I am unwilling to send them away hungry, lest they faint on the way.” 
Matthew 15:34
And Jesus said to them, “How many loaves do you have?” They said, “Seven, and a few small fish.” 
Matthew 16:2
He answered them, “When it is evening, you say, ‘It will be fair weather, for the sky is red.’ 
Matthew 16:3
And in the morning, ‘It will be stormy today, for the sky is red and threatening.’ You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but you cannot interpret the signs of the times. 
Matthew 16:4
An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah.” So he left them and departed. 
Matthew 16:6
Jesus said to them, “Watch and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.” 
Matthew 16:8
But Jesus, aware of this, said, “O you of little faith, why are you discussing among yourselves the fact that you have no bread? 
Matthew 16:9
Do you not yet perceive? Do you not remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many baskets you gathered? 
Matthew 16:10
Or the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many baskets you gathered? 
Matthew 16:11
How is it that you fail to understand that I did not speak about bread? Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.” 
Matthew 16:13
Now when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, “Who do people say that the Son of Man is?” 
Matthew 16:15
He said to them, “But who do you say that I am?” 
Matthew 16:17
And Jesus answered him, “Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. 
Matthew 16:18
And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. 
Matthew 16:19
I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.” 
Matthew 16:23
But he turned and said to Peter, “Get behind me, Satan! You are a hindrance to me. For you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man.” 
Matthew 16:24
Then Jesus told his disciples, “If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. 
Matthew 16:25
For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. 
Matthew 16:26
For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? Or what shall a man give in return for his soul? 
Matthew 16:27
For the Son of Man is going to come with his angels in the glory of his Father, and then he will repay each person according to what he has done. 
Matthew 16:28
Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom.” 
Matthew 17:7
But Jesus came and touched them, saying, “Rise, and have no fear.” 
Matthew 17:9
And as they were coming down the mountain, Jesus commanded them, “Tell no one the vision, until the Son of Man is raised from the dead.” 
Matthew 17:11
He answered, “Elijah does come, and he will restore all things. 
Matthew 17:12
But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they pleased. So also the Son of Man will certainly suffer at their hands.” 
Matthew 17:17
And Jesus answered, “O faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him here to me.” 
Matthew 17:20
He said to them, “Because of your little faith. For truly, I say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you.” 
Matthew 17:22
As they were gathering in Galilee, Jesus said to them, “The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men, 
Matthew 17:23
and they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day.” And they were greatly distressed. 
Matthew 17:25
He said, “Yes.” And when he came into the house, Jesus spoke to him first, saying, “What do you think, Simon? From whom do kings of the earth take toll or tax? From their sons or from others?” 
Matthew 17:26
And when he said, “From others,” Jesus said to him, “Then the sons are free. 
Matthew 17:27
However, not to give offense to them, go to the sea and cast a hook and take the first fish that comes up, and when you open its mouth you will find a shekel. Take that and give it to them for me and for yourself.” 
Matthew 18:3
and said, “Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. 
Matthew 18:4
Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. 
Matthew 18:5
“Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me, 
Matthew 18:6
but whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea. 
Matthew 18:7
“Woe to the world for temptations to sin! For it is necessary that temptations come, but woe to the one by whom the temptation comes! 
Matthew 18:8
And if your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life crippled or lame than with two hands or two feet to be thrown into the eternal fire. 
Matthew 18:9
And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into the hell of fire. 
Matthew 18:10
“See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I tell you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in heaven. 
Matthew 18:12
What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep, and one of them has gone astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go in search of the one that went astray? 
Matthew 18:13
And if he finds it, truly, I say to you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine that never went astray. 
Matthew 18:14
So it is not the will of my Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. 
Matthew 18:15
“If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. 
Matthew 18:16
But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. 
Matthew 18:17
If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. 
Matthew 18:18
Truly, I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. 
Matthew 18:19
Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. 
Matthew 18:20
For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them.” 
Matthew 18:22
Jesus said to him, “I do not say to you seven times, but seventy-seven times. 
Matthew 18:23
“Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. 
Matthew 18:24
When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents. 
Matthew 18:25
And since he could not pay, his master ordered him to be sold, with his wife and children and all that he had, and payment to be made. 
Matthew 18:26
So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him, ‘Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything.’ 
Matthew 18:27
And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt. 
Matthew 18:28
But when that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii, and seizing him, he began to choke him, saying, ‘Pay what you owe.’ 
Matthew 18:29
So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, ‘Have patience with me, and I will pay you.’ 
Matthew 18:30
He refused and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt. 
Matthew 18:31
When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, and they went and reported to their master all that had taken place. 
Matthew 18:32
Then his master summoned him and said to him, ‘You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. 
Matthew 18:33
And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant, as I had mercy on you?’ 
Matthew 18:34
And in anger his master delivered him to the jailers, until he should pay all his debt. 
Matthew 18:35
So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you, if you do not forgive your brother from your heart.” 
Matthew 19:4
He answered, “Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female, 
Matthew 19:5
and said, ‘Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh’? 
Matthew 19:6
So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.” 
Matthew 19:8
He said to them, “Because of your hardness of heart Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. 
Matthew 19:9
And I say to you: whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery.” 
Matthew 19:11
But he said to them, “Not everyone can receive this saying, but only those to whom it is given. 
Matthew 19:12
For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Let the one who is able to receive this receive it.” 
Matthew 19:14
but Jesus said, “Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven.” 
Matthew 19:17
And he said to him, “Why do you ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would enter life, keep the commandments.” 
Matthew 19:18
He said to him, “Which ones?” And Jesus said, “You shall not murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not steal, You shall not bear false witness, 
Matthew 19:19
Honor your father and mother, and, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.” 
Matthew 19:21
Jesus said to him, “If you would be perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.” 
Matthew 19:23
And Jesus said to his disciples, “Truly, I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of heaven. 
Matthew 19:24
Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God.” 
Matthew 19:26
But Jesus looked at them and said, “With man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.” 
Matthew 19:28
Jesus said to them, “Truly, I say to you, in the new world, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. 
Matthew 19:29
And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands, for my name’s sake, will receive a hundredfold and will inherit eternal life. 
Matthew 19:30
But many who are first will be last, and the last first. 
Matthew 20:1
“For the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. 
Matthew 20:2
After agreeing with the laborers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard. 
Matthew 20:3
And going out about the third hour he saw others standing idle in the marketplace, 
Matthew 20:4
and to them he said, ‘You go into the vineyard too, and whatever is right I will give you.’ 
Matthew 20:5
So they went. Going out again about the sixth hour and the ninth hour, he did the same. 
Matthew 20:6
And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing. And he said to them, ‘Why do you stand here idle all day?’ 
Matthew 20:7
They said to him, ‘Because no one has hired us.’ He said to them, ‘You go into the vineyard too.’ 
Matthew 20:8
And when evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his foreman, ‘Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last, up to the first.’ 
Matthew 20:9
And when those hired about the eleventh hour came, each of them received a denarius. 
Matthew 20:10
Now when those hired first came, they thought they would receive more, but each of them also received a denarius. 
Matthew 20:11
And on receiving it they grumbled at the master of the house, 
Matthew 20:12
saying, ‘These last worked only one hour, and you have made them equal to us who have borne the burden of the day and the scorching heat.’ 
Matthew 20:13
But he replied to one of them, ‘Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for a denarius? 
Matthew 20:14
Take what belongs to you and go. I choose to give to this last worker as I give to you. 
Matthew 20:15
Am I not allowed to do what I choose with what belongs to me? Or do you begrudge my generosity?’ 
Matthew 20:16
So the last will be first, and the first last.” 
Matthew 20:18
“See, we are going up to Jerusalem. And the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death 
Matthew 20:19
and deliver him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified, and he will be raised on the third day.” 
Matthew 20:21
And he said to her, “What do you want?” She said to him, “Say that these two sons of mine are to sit, one at your right hand and one at your left, in your kingdom.” 
Matthew 20:22
Jesus answered, “You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am to drink?” They said to him, “We are able.” 
Matthew 20:23
He said to them, “You will drink my cup, but to sit at my right hand and at my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father.” 
Matthew 20:25
But Jesus called them to him and said, “You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. 
Matthew 20:26
It shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant, 
Matthew 20:27
and whoever would be first among you must be your slave, 
Matthew 20:28
even as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.” 
Matthew 20:32
And stopping, Jesus called them and said, “What do you want me to do for you?” 
Matthew 21:2
saying to them, “Go into the village in front of you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. 
Matthew 21:3
If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, ‘The Lord needs them,’ and he will send them at once.” 
Matthew 21:13
He said to them, “It is written, ‘My house shall be called a house of prayer,’ but you make it a den of robbers.” 
Matthew 21:16
and they said to him, “Do you hear what these are saying?” And Jesus said to them, “Yes; have you never read, “ ‘Out of the mouth of infants and nursing babies you have prepared praise’?” 
Matthew 21:19
And seeing a fig tree by the wayside, he went to it and found nothing on it but only leaves. And he said to it, “May no fruit ever come from you again!” And the fig tree withered at once. 
Matthew 21:21
And Jesus answered them, “Truly, I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what has been done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, ‘Be taken up and thrown into the sea,’ it will happen. 
Matthew 21:22
And whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive, if you have faith.” 
Matthew 21:24
Jesus answered them, “I also will ask you one question, and if you tell me the answer, then I also will tell you by what authority I do these things. 
Matthew 21:25
The baptism of John, from where did it come? From heaven or from man?” And they discussed it among themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will say to us, ‘Why then did you not believe him?’ 
Matthew 21:27
So they answered Jesus, “We do not know.” And he said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. 
Matthew 21:28
“What do you think? A man had two sons. And he went to the first and said, ‘Son, go and work in the vineyard today.’ 
Matthew 21:29
And he answered, ‘I will not,’ but afterward he changed his mind and went. 
Matthew 21:30
And he went to the other son and said the same. And he answered, ‘I go, sir,’ but did not go. 
Matthew 21:31
Which of the two did the will of his father?” They said, “The first.” Jesus said to them, “Truly, I say to you, the tax collectors and the prostitutes go into the kingdom of God before you. 
Matthew 21:32
For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed him. And even when you saw it, you did not afterward change your minds and believe him. 
Matthew 21:33
“Hear another parable. There was a master of a house who planted a vineyard and put a fence around it and dug a winepress in it and built a tower and leased it to tenants, and went into another country. 
Matthew 21:34
When the season for fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants to get his fruit. 
Matthew 21:35
And the tenants took his servants and beat one, killed another, and stoned another. 
Matthew 21:36
Again he sent other servants, more than the first. And they did the same to them. 
Matthew 21:37
Finally he sent his son to them, saying, ‘They will respect my son.’ 
Matthew 21:38
But when the tenants saw the son, they said to themselves, ‘This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and have his inheritance.’ 
Matthew 21:39
And they took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. 
Matthew 21:40
When therefore the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants?” 
Matthew 21:42
Jesus said to them, “Have you never read in the Scriptures: “ ‘The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone; this was the Lord’s doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes’? 
Matthew 21:43
Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing its fruits. 
Matthew 21:44
And the one who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces; and when it falls on anyone, it will crush him.” 
Matthew 22:2
“The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a wedding feast for his son, 
Matthew 22:3
and sent his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding feast, but they would not come. 
Matthew 22:4
Again he sent other servants, saying, ‘Tell those who are invited, “See, I have prepared my dinner, my oxen and my fat calves have been slaughtered, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding feast.” ’ 
Matthew 22:5
But they paid no attention and went off, one to his farm, another to his business, 
Matthew 22:6
while the rest seized his servants, treated them shamefully, and killed them. 
Matthew 22:7
The king was angry, and he sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city. 
Matthew 22:8
Then he said to his servants, ‘The wedding feast is ready, but those invited were not worthy. 
Matthew 22:9
Go therefore to the main roads and invite to the wedding feast as many as you find.’ 
Matthew 22:10
And those servants went out into the roads and gathered all whom they found, both bad and good. So the wedding hall was filled with guests. 
Matthew 22:11
“But when the king came in to look at the guests, he saw there a man who had no wedding garment. 
Matthew 22:12
And he said to him, ‘Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment?’ And he was speechless. 
Matthew 22:13
Then the king said to the attendants, ‘Bind him hand and foot and cast him into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’ 
Matthew 22:14
For many are called, but few are chosen.” 
Matthew 22:18
But Jesus, aware of their malice, said, “Why put me to the test, you hypocrites? 
Matthew 22:19
Show me the coin for the tax.” And they brought him a denarius. 
Matthew 22:20
And Jesus said to them, “Whose likeness and inscription is this?” 
Matthew 22:21
They said, “Caesar’s.” Then he said to them, “Therefore render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.” 
Matthew 22:29
But Jesus answered them, “You are wrong, because you know neither the Scriptures nor the power of God. 
Matthew 22:30
For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. 
Matthew 22:31
And as for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was said to you by God: 
Matthew 22:32
‘I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’? He is not God of the dead, but of the living.” 
Matthew 22:37
And he said to him, “You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. 
Matthew 22:38
This is the great and first commandment. 
Matthew 22:39
And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself. 
Matthew 22:40
On these two commandments depend all the Law and the Prophets.” 
Matthew 22:42
saying, “What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he?” They said to him, “The son of David.” 
Matthew 22:43
He said to them, “How is it then that David, in the Spirit, calls him Lord, saying, 
Matthew 22:44
“ ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at my right hand, until I put your enemies under your feet” ’? 
Matthew 22:45
If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son?” 
Matthew 23:2
“The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses’ seat, 
Matthew 23:3
so do and observe whatever they tell you, but not the works they do. For they preach, but do not practice. 
Matthew 23:4
They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on people’s shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move them with their finger. 
Matthew 23:5
They do all their deeds to be seen by others. For they make their phylacteries broad and their fringes long, 
Matthew 23:6
and they love the place of honor at feasts and the best seats in the synagogues 
Matthew 23:7
and greetings in the marketplaces and being called rabbi by others. 
Matthew 23:8
But you are not to be called rabbi, for you have one teacher, and you are all brothers. 
Matthew 23:9
And call no man your father on earth, for you have one Father, who is in heaven. 
Matthew 23:10
Neither be called instructors, for you have one instructor, the Christ. 
Matthew 23:11
The greatest among you shall be your servant. 
Matthew 23:12
Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted. 
Matthew 23:13
“But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you shut the kingdom of heaven in people’s faces. For you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in. 
Matthew 23:15
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you travel across sea and land to make a single proselyte, and when he becomes a proselyte, you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves. 
Matthew 23:16
“Woe to you, blind guides, who say, ‘If anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing, but if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he is bound by his oath.’ 
Matthew 23:17
You blind fools! For which is greater, the gold or the temple that has made the gold sacred? 
Matthew 23:18
And you say, ‘If anyone swears by the altar, it is nothing, but if anyone swears by the gift that is on the altar, he is bound by his oath.’ 
Matthew 23:19
You blind men! For which is greater, the gift or the altar that makes the gift sacred? 
Matthew 23:20
So whoever swears by the altar swears by it and by everything on it. 
Matthew 23:21
And whoever swears by the temple swears by it and by him who dwells in it. 
Matthew 23:22
And whoever swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by him who sits upon it. 
Matthew 23:23
“Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law: justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done, without neglecting the others. 
Matthew 23:24
You blind guides, straining out a gnat and swallowing a camel! 
Matthew 23:25
“Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you clean the outside of the cup and the plate, but inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence. 
Matthew 23:26
You blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of the cup and the plate, that the outside also may be clean. 
Matthew 23:27
“Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs, which outwardly appear beautiful, but within are full of dead people’s bones and all uncleanness. 
Matthew 23:28
So you also outwardly appear righteous to others, but within you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. 
Matthew 23:29
“Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you build the tombs of the prophets and decorate the monuments of the righteous, 
Matthew 23:30
saying, ‘If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have taken part with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.’ 
Matthew 23:31
Thus you witness against yourselves that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets. 
Matthew 23:32
Fill up, then, the measure of your fathers. 
Matthew 23:33
You serpents, you brood of vipers, how are you to escape being sentenced to hell? 
Matthew 23:34
Therefore I send you prophets and wise men and scribes, some of whom you will kill and crucify, and some you will flog in your synagogues and persecute from town to town, 
Matthew 23:35
so that on you may come all the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah the son of Barachiah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar. 
Matthew 23:36
Truly, I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation. 
Matthew 23:37
“O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it! How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing! 
Matthew 23:38
See, your house is left to you desolate. 
Matthew 23:39
For I tell you, you will not see me again, until you say, ‘Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.’ ” 
Matthew 24:2
But he answered them, “You see all these, do you not? Truly, I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down.” 
Matthew 24:4
And Jesus answered them, “See that no one leads you astray. 
Matthew 24:5
For many will come in my name, saying, ‘I am the Christ,’ and they will lead many astray. 
Matthew 24:6
And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed, for this must take place, but the end is not yet. 
Matthew 24:7
For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines and earthquakes in various places. 
Matthew 24:8
All these are but the beginning of the birth pains. 
Matthew 24:9
“Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you to death, and you will be hated by all nations for my name’s sake. 
Matthew 24:10
And then many will fall away and betray one another and hate one another. 
Matthew 24:11
And many false prophets will arise and lead many astray. 
Matthew 24:12
And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow cold. 
Matthew 24:13
But the one who endures to the end will be saved. 
Matthew 24:14
And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. 
Matthew 24:15
“So when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel, standing in the holy place (let the reader understand), 
Matthew 24:16
then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. 
Matthew 24:17
Let the one who is on the housetop not go down to take what is in his house, 
Matthew 24:18
and let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak. 
Matthew 24:19
And alas for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days! 
Matthew 24:20
Pray that your flight may not be in winter or on a Sabbath. 
Matthew 24:21
For then there will be great tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now, no, and never will be. 
Matthew 24:22
And if those days had not been cut short, no human being would be saved. But for the sake of the elect those days will be cut short. 
Matthew 24:23
Then if anyone says to you, ‘Look, here is the Christ!’ or ‘There he is!’ do not believe it. 
Matthew 24:24
For false christs and false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect. 
Matthew 24:25
See, I have told you beforehand. 
Matthew 24:26
So, if they say to you, ‘Look, he is in the wilderness,’ do not go out. If they say, ‘Look, he is in the inner rooms,’ do not believe it. 
Matthew 24:27
For as the lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. 
Matthew 24:28
Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather. 
Matthew 24:29
“Immediately after the tribulation of those days the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. 
Matthew 24:30
Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. 
Matthew 24:31
And he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other. 
Matthew 24:32
“From the fig tree learn its lesson: as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near. 
Matthew 24:33
So also, when you see all these things, you know that he is near, at the very gates. 
Matthew 24:34
Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. 
Matthew 24:35
Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. 
Matthew 24:36
“But concerning that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only. 
Matthew 24:37
For as were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. 
Matthew 24:38
For as in those days before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day when Noah entered the ark, 
Matthew 24:39
and they were unaware until the flood came and swept them all away, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. 
Matthew 24:40
Then two men will be in the field; one will be taken and one left. 
Matthew 24:41
Two women will be grinding at the mill; one will be taken and one left. 
Matthew 24:42
Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming. 
Matthew 24:43
But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake and would not have let his house be broken into. 
Matthew 24:44
Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. 
Matthew 24:45
“Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his master has set over his household, to give them their food at the proper time? 
Matthew 24:46
Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes. 
Matthew 24:47
Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions. 
Matthew 24:48
But if that wicked servant says to himself, ‘My master is delayed,’ 
Matthew 24:49
and begins to beat his fellow servants and eats and drinks with drunkards, 
Matthew 24:50
the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not know 
Matthew 24:51
and will cut him in pieces and put him with the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
Matthew 25:1
“Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went to meet the bridegroom. 
Matthew 25:2
Five of them were foolish, and five were wise. 
Matthew 25:3
For when the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them, 
Matthew 25:4
but the wise took flasks of oil with their lamps. 
Matthew 25:5
As the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept. 
Matthew 25:6
But at midnight there was a cry, ‘Here is the bridegroom! Come out to meet him.’ 
Matthew 25:7
Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps. 
Matthew 25:8
And the foolish said to the wise, ‘Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.’ 
Matthew 25:9
But the wise answered, saying, ‘Since there will not be enough for us and for you, go rather to the dealers and buy for yourselves.’ 
Matthew 25:10
And while they were going to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast, and the door was shut. 
Matthew 25:11
Afterward the other virgins came also, saying, ‘Lord, lord, open to us.’ 
Matthew 25:12
But he answered, ‘Truly, I say to you, I do not know you.’ 
Matthew 25:13
Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour. 
Matthew 25:14
“For it will be like a man going on a journey, who called his servants and entrusted to them his property. 
Matthew 25:15
To one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one, to each according to his ability. Then he went away. 
Matthew 25:16
He who had received the five talents went at once and traded with them, and he made five talents more. 
Matthew 25:17
So also he who had the two talents made two talents more. 
Matthew 25:18
But he who had received the one talent went and dug in the ground and hid his master’s money. 
Matthew 25:19
Now after a long time the master of those servants came and settled accounts with them. 
Matthew 25:20
And he who had received the five talents came forward, bringing five talents more, saying, ‘Master, you delivered to me five talents; here I have made five talents more.’ 
Matthew 25:21
His master said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.’ 
Matthew 25:22
And he also who had the two talents came forward, saying, ‘Master, you delivered to me two talents; here I have made two talents more.’ 
Matthew 25:23
His master said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.’ 
Matthew 25:24
He also who had received the one talent came forward, saying, ‘Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you scattered no seed, 
Matthew 25:25
so I was afraid, and I went and hid your talent in the ground. Here you have what is yours.’ 
Matthew 25:26
But his master answered him, ‘You wicked and slothful servant! You knew that I reap where I have not sown and gather where I scattered no seed? 
Matthew 25:27
Then you ought to have invested my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have received what was my own with interest. 
Matthew 25:28
So take the talent from him and give it to him who has the ten talents. 
Matthew 25:29
For to everyone who has will more be given, and he will have an abundance. But from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. 
Matthew 25:30
And cast the worthless servant into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’ 
Matthew 25:31
“When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. 
Matthew 25:32
Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. 
Matthew 25:33
And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left. 
Matthew 25:34
Then the King will say to those on his right, ‘Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. 
Matthew 25:35
For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, 
Matthew 25:36
I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me.’ 
Matthew 25:37
Then the righteous will answer him, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? 
Matthew 25:38
And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you? 
Matthew 25:39
And when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you?’ 
Matthew 25:40
And the King will answer them, ‘Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.’ 
Matthew 25:41
“Then he will say to those on his left, ‘Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. 
Matthew 25:42
For I was hungry and you gave me no food, I was thirsty and you gave me no drink, 
Matthew 25:43
I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison and you did not visit me.’ 
Matthew 25:44
Then they also will answer, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison, and did not minister to you?’ 
Matthew 25:45
Then he will answer them, saying, ‘Truly, I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me.’ 
Matthew 25:46
And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.” 
Matthew 26:2
“You know that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to be crucified.” 
Matthew 26:10
But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, “Why do you trouble the woman? For she has done a beautiful thing to me. 
Matthew 26:11
For you always have the poor with you, but you will not always have me. 
Matthew 26:12
In pouring this ointment on my body, she has done it to prepare me for burial. 
Matthew 26:13
Truly, I say to you, wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will also be told in memory of her.” 
Matthew 26:18
He said, “Go into the city to a certain man and say to him, ‘The Teacher says, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples.’ ” 
Matthew 26:21
And as they were eating, he said, “Truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me.” 
Matthew 26:23
He answered, “He who has dipped his hand in the dish with me will betray me. 
Matthew 26:24
The Son of Man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been better for that man if he had not been born.” 
Matthew 26:25
Judas, who would betray him, answered, “Is it I, Rabbi?” He said to him, “You have said so.” 
Matthew 26:26
Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples, and said, “Take, eat; this is my body.” 
Matthew 26:27
And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, “Drink of it, all of you, 
Matthew 26:28
for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. 
Matthew 26:29
I tell you I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father’s kingdom.” 
Matthew 26:31
Then Jesus said to them, “You will all fall away because of me this night. For it is written, ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.’ 
Matthew 26:32
But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee.” 
Matthew 26:34
Jesus said to him, “Truly, I tell you, this very night, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times.” 
Matthew 26:36
Then Jesus went with them to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, “Sit here, while I go over there and pray.” 
Matthew 26:38
Then he said to them, “My soul is very sorrowful, even to death; remain here, and watch with me.” 
Matthew 26:39
And going a little farther he fell on his face and prayed, saying, “My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me; nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will.” 
Matthew 26:40
And he came to the disciples and found them sleeping. And he said to Peter, “So, could you not watch with me one hour? 
Matthew 26:41
Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.” 
Matthew 26:42
Again, for the second time, he went away and prayed, “My Father, if this cannot pass unless I drink it, your will be done.” 
Matthew 26:45
Then he came to the disciples and said to them, “Sleep and take your rest later on. See, the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. 
Matthew 26:46
Rise, let us be going; see, my betrayer is at hand.” 
Matthew 26:50
Jesus said to him, “Friend, do what you came to do.” Then they came up and laid hands on Jesus and seized him. 
Matthew 26:52
Then Jesus said to him, “Put your sword back into its place. For all who take the sword will perish by the sword. 
Matthew 26:53
Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels? 
Matthew 26:54
But how then should the Scriptures be fulfilled, that it must be so?” 
Matthew 26:55
At that hour Jesus said to the crowds, “Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs to capture me? Day after day I sat in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. 
Matthew 26:56
But all this has taken place that the Scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled.” Then all the disciples left him and fled. 
Matthew 26:64
Jesus said to him, “You have said so. But I tell you, from now on you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of Power and coming on the clouds of heaven.” 
Matthew 26:75
And Peter remembered the saying of Jesus, “Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times.” And he went out and wept bitterly. 
Matthew 27:11
Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, “Are you the King of the Jews?” Jesus said, “You have said so.” 
Matthew 27:46
And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, “Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?” that is, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?” 
Matthew 28:9
And behold, Jesus met them and said, “Greetings!” And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshiped him. 
Matthew 28:10
Then Jesus said to them, “Do not be afraid; go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me.” 
Matthew 28:18
And Jesus came and said to them, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. 
Matthew 28:19
Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, 
Matthew 28:20
teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.” 
Mark 1:15
and saying, “The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent and believe in the gospel.” 
Mark 1:17
And Jesus said to them, “Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men.” 
Mark 1:25
But Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be silent, and come out of him!” 
Mark 1:38
And he said to them, “Let us go on to the next towns, that I may preach there also, for that is why I came out.” 
Mark 1:41
Moved with pity, he stretched out his hand and touched him and said to him, “I will; be clean.” 
Mark 1:44
and said to him, “See that you say nothing to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded, for a proof to them.” 
Mark 2:5
And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, “Son, your sins are forgiven.” 
Mark 2:8
And immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they thus questioned within themselves, said to them, “Why do you question these things in your hearts? 
Mark 2:9
Which is easier, to say to the paralytic, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Rise, take up your bed and walk’? 
Mark 2:10
But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins”—he said to the paralytic— 
Mark 2:11
“I say to you, rise, pick up your bed, and go home.” 
Mark 2:14
And as he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him, “Follow me.” And he rose and followed him. 
Mark 2:17
And when Jesus heard it, he said to them, “Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners.” 
Mark 2:19
And Jesus said to them, “Can the wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. 
Mark 2:20
The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in that day. 
Mark 2:21
No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. If he does, the patch tears away from it, the new from the old, and a worse tear is made. 
Mark 2:22
And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the wine will burst the skins—and the wine is destroyed, and so are the skins. But new wine is for fresh wineskins.” 
Mark 2:25
And he said to them, “Have you never read what David did, when he was in need and was hungry, he and those who were with him: 
Mark 2:26
how he entered the house of God, in the time of Abiathar the high priest, and ate the bread of the Presence, which it is not lawful for any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those who were with him?” 
Mark 2:27
And he said to them, “The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. 
Mark 2:28
So the Son of Man is lord even of the Sabbath.” 
Mark 3:3
And he said to the man with the withered hand, “Come here.” 
Mark 3:4
And he said to them, “Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to kill?” But they were silent. 
Mark 3:5
And he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, and said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He stretched it out, and his hand was restored. 
Mark 3:23
And he called them to him and said to them in parables, “How can Satan cast out Satan? 
Mark 3:24
If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. 
Mark 3:25
And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. 
Mark 3:26
And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but is coming to an end. 
Mark 3:27
But no one can enter a strong man’s house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong man. Then indeed he may plunder his house. 
Mark 3:28
“Truly, I say to you, all sins will be forgiven the children of man, and whatever blasphemies they utter, 
Mark 3:29
but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin”— 
Mark 3:33
And he answered them, “Who are my mother and my brothers?” 
Mark 3:34
And looking about at those who sat around him, he said, “Here are my mother and my brothers! 
Mark 3:35
For whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and mother.” 
Mark 4:3
“Listen! Behold, a sower went out to sow. 
Mark 4:4
And as he sowed, some seed fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured it. 
Mark 4:5
Other seed fell on rocky ground, where it did not have much soil, and immediately it sprang up, since it had no depth of soil. 
Mark 4:6
And when the sun rose, it was scorched, and since it had no root, it withered away. 
Mark 4:7
Other seed fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no grain. 
Mark 4:8
And other seeds fell into good soil and produced grain, growing up and increasing and yielding thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold.” 
Mark 4:9
And he said, “He who has ears to hear, let him hear.” 
Mark 4:11
And he said to them, “To you has been given the secret of the kingdom of God, but for those outside everything is in parables, 
Mark 4:12
so that “they may indeed see but not perceive, and may indeed hear but not understand, lest they should turn and be forgiven.” 
Mark 4:13
And he said to them, “Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables? 
Mark 4:14
The sower sows the word. 
Mark 4:15
And these are the ones along the path, where the word is sown: when they hear, Satan immediately comes and takes away the word that is sown in them. 
Mark 4:16
And these are the ones sown on rocky ground: the ones who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with joy. 
Mark 4:17
And they have no root in themselves, but endure for a while; then, when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately they fall away. 
Mark 4:18
And others are the ones sown among thorns. They are those who hear the word, 
Mark 4:19
but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches and the desires for other things enter in and choke the word, and it proves unfruitful. 
Mark 4:20
But those that were sown on the good soil are the ones who hear the word and accept it and bear fruit, thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold.” 
Mark 4:21
And he said to them, “Is a lamp brought in to be put under a basket, or under a bed, and not on a stand? 
Mark 4:22
For nothing is hidden except to be made manifest; nor is anything secret except to come to light. 
Mark 4:23
If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.” 
Mark 4:24
And he said to them, “Pay attention to what you hear: with the measure you use, it will be measured to you, and still more will be added to you. 
Mark 4:25
For to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away.” 
Mark 4:26
And he said, “The kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground. 
Mark 4:27
He sleeps and rises night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows; he knows not how. 
Mark 4:28
The earth produces by itself, first the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear. 
Mark 4:29
But when the grain is ripe, at once he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come.” 
Mark 4:30
And he said, “With what can we compare the kingdom of God, or what parable shall we use for it? 
Mark 4:31
It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when sown on the ground, is the smallest of all the seeds on earth, 
Mark 4:32
yet when it is sown it grows up and becomes larger than all the garden plants and puts out large branches, so that the birds of the air can make nests in its shade.” 
Mark 4:35
On that day, when evening had come, he said to them, “Let us go across to the other side.” 
Mark 4:39
And he awoke and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, “Peace! Be still!” And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. 
Mark 4:40
He said to them, “Why are you so afraid? Have you still no faith?” 
Mark 5:8
For he was saying to him, “Come out of the man, you unclean spirit!” 
Mark 5:9
And Jesus asked him, “What is your name?” He replied, “My name is Legion, for we are many.” 
Mark 5:19
And he did not permit him but said to him, “Go home to your friends and tell them how much the Lord has done for you, and how he has had mercy on you.” 
Mark 5:30
And Jesus, perceiving in himself that power had gone out from him, immediately turned about in the crowd and said, “Who touched my garments?” 
Mark 5:31
And his disciples said to him, “You see the crowd pressing around you, and yet you say, ‘Who touched me?’ ” 
Mark 5:34
And he said to her, “Daughter, your faith has made you well; go in peace, and be healed of your disease.” 
Mark 5:36
But overhearing what they said, Jesus said to the ruler of the synagogue, “Do not fear, only believe.” 
Mark 5:39
And when he had entered, he said to them, “Why are you making a commotion and weeping? The child is not dead but sleeping.” 
Mark 5:41
Taking her by the hand he said to her, “Talitha cumi,” which means, “Little girl, I say to you, arise.” 
Mark 6:4
And Jesus said to them, “A prophet is not without honor, except in his hometown and among his relatives and in his own household.” 
Mark 6:10
And he said to them, “Whenever you enter a house, stay there until you depart from there. 
Mark 6:11
And if any place will not receive you and they will not listen to you, when you leave, shake off the dust that is on your feet as a testimony against them.” 
Mark 6:31
And he said to them, “Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest a while.” For many were coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat. 
Mark 6:37
But he answered them, “You give them something to eat.” And they said to him, “Shall we go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give it to them to eat?” 
Mark 6:38
And he said to them, “How many loaves do you have? Go and see.” And when they had found out, they said, “Five, and two fish.” 
Mark 6:50
for they all saw him and were terrified. But immediately he spoke to them and said, “Take heart; it is I. Do not be afraid.” 
Mark 7:6
And he said to them, “Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, “ ‘This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me; 
Mark 7:7
in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.’ 
Mark 7:8
You leave the commandment of God and hold to the tradition of men.” 
Mark 7:9
And he said to them, “You have a fine way of rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition! 
Mark 7:10
For Moses said, ‘Honor your father and your mother’; and, ‘Whoever reviles father or mother must surely die.’ 
Mark 7:11
But you say, ‘If a man tells his father or his mother, “Whatever you would have gained from me is Corban” ’ (that is, given to God)— 
Mark 7:12
then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother, 
Mark 7:13
thus making void the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down. And many such things you do.” 
Mark 7:14
And he called the people to him again and said to them, “Hear me, all of you, and understand: 
Mark 7:15
There is nothing outside a person that by going into him can defile him, but the things that come out of a person are what defile him.” 
Mark 7:18
And he said to them, “Then are you also without understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes into a person from outside cannot defile him, 
Mark 7:19
since it enters not his heart but his stomach, and is expelled?” (Thus he declared all foods clean.) 
Mark 7:20
And he said, “What comes out of a person is what defiles him. 
Mark 7:21
For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, 
Mark 7:22
coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness. 
Mark 7:23
All these evil things come from within, and they defile a person.” 
Mark 7:27
And he said to her, “Let the children be fed first, for it is not right to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.” 
Mark 7:29
And he said to her, “For this statement you may go your way; the demon has left your daughter.” 
Mark 7:34
And looking up to heaven, he sighed and said to him, “Ephphatha,” that is, “Be opened.” 
Mark 8:2
“I have compassion on the crowd, because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat. 
Mark 8:3
And if I send them away hungry to their homes, they will faint on the way. And some of them have come from far away.” 
Mark 8:5
And he asked them, “How many loaves do you have?” They said, “Seven.” 
Mark 8:12
And he sighed deeply in his spirit and said, “Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly, I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation.” 
Mark 8:15
And he cautioned them, saying, “Watch out; beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod.” 
Mark 8:17
And Jesus, aware of this, said to them, “Why are you discussing the fact that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive or understand? Are your hearts hardened? 
Mark 8:18
Having eyes do you not see, and having ears do you not hear? And do you not remember? 
Mark 8:19
When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up?” They said to him, “Twelve.” 
Mark 8:20
“And the seven for the four thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up?” And they said to him, “Seven.” 
Mark 8:21
And he said to them, “Do you not yet understand?” 
Mark 8:23
And he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the village, and when he had spit on his eyes and laid his hands on him, he asked him, “Do you see anything?” 
Mark 8:26
And he sent him to his home, saying, “Do not even enter the village.” 
Mark 8:27
And Jesus went on with his disciples to the villages of Caesarea Philippi. And on the way he asked his disciples, “Who do people say that I am?” 
Mark 8:29
And he asked them, “But who do you say that I am?” Peter answered him, “You are the Christ.” 
Mark 8:33
But turning and seeing his disciples, he rebuked Peter and said, “Get behind me, Satan! For you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man.” 
Mark 8:34
And calling the crowd to him with his disciples, he said to them, “If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. 
Mark 8:35
For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel’s will save it. 
Mark 8:36
For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? 
Mark 8:37
For what can a man give in return for his soul? 
Mark 8:38
For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him will the Son of Man also be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.” 
Mark 9:1
And he said to them, “Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after it has come with power.” 
Mark 9:12
And he said to them, “Elijah does come first to restore all things. And how is it written of the Son of Man that he should suffer many things and be treated with contempt? 
Mark 9:13
But I tell you that Elijah has come, and they did to him whatever they pleased, as it is written of him.” 
Mark 9:16
And he asked them, “What are you arguing about with them?” 
Mark 9:19
And he answered them, “O faithless generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him to me.” 
Mark 9:21
And Jesus asked his father, “How long has this been happening to him?” And he said, “From childhood. 
Mark 9:23
And Jesus said to him, “ ‘If you can’! All things are possible for one who believes.” 
Mark 9:25
And when Jesus saw that a crowd came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, “You mute and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him and never enter him again.” 
Mark 9:29
And he said to them, “This kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer.” 
Mark 9:31
for he was teaching his disciples, saying to them, “The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him. And when he is killed, after three days he will rise.” 
Mark 9:33
And they came to Capernaum. And when he was in the house he asked them, “What were you discussing on the way?” 
Mark 9:35
And he sat down and called the twelve. And he said to them, “If anyone would be first, he must be last of all and servant of all.” 
Mark 9:37
“Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me, receives not me but him who sent me.” 
Mark 9:39
But Jesus said, “Do not stop him, for no one who does a mighty work in my name will be able soon afterward to speak evil of me. 
Mark 9:40
For the one who is not against us is for us. 
Mark 9:41
For truly, I say to you, whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you belong to Christ will by no means lose his reward. 
Mark 9:42
“Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him if a great millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea. 
Mark 9:43
And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than with two hands to go to hell, to the unquenchable fire. 
Mark 9:45
And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be thrown into hell. 
Mark 9:47
And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into hell, 
Mark 9:48
‘where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched.’ 
Mark 9:49
For everyone will be salted with fire. 
Mark 9:50
Salt is good, but if the salt has lost its saltiness, how will you make it salty again? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace with one another.” 
Mark 10:3
He answered them, “What did Moses command you?” 
Mark 10:5
And Jesus said to them, “Because of your hardness of heart he wrote you this commandment. 
Mark 10:6
But from the beginning of creation, ‘God made them male and female.’ 
Mark 10:7
‘Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, 
Mark 10:8
and the two shall become one flesh.’ So they are no longer two but one flesh. 
Mark 10:9
What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.” 
Mark 10:11
And he said to them, “Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her, 
Mark 10:12
and if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery.” 
Mark 10:14
But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, “Let the children come to me; do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God. 
Mark 10:15
Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.” 
Mark 10:18
And Jesus said to him, “Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. 
Mark 10:19
You know the commandments: ‘Do not murder, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor your father and mother.’ ” 
Mark 10:21
And Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him, “You lack one thing: go, sell all that you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.” 
Mark 10:23
And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, “How difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!” 
Mark 10:24
And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus said to them again, “Children, how difficult it is to enter the kingdom of God! 
Mark 10:25
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God.” 
Mark 10:27
Jesus looked at them and said, “With man it is impossible, but not with God. For all things are possible with God.” 
Mark 10:29
Jesus said, “Truly, I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or lands, for my sake and for the gospel, 
Mark 10:30
who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands, with persecutions, and in the age to come eternal life. 
Mark 10:31
But many who are first will be last, and the last first.” 
Mark 10:33
saying, “See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and deliver him over to the Gentiles. 
Mark 10:34
And they will mock him and spit on him, and flog him and kill him. And after three days he will rise.” 
Mark 10:36
And he said to them, “What do you want me to do for you?” 
Mark 10:38
Jesus said to them, “You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?” 
Mark 10:39
And they said to him, “We are able.” And Jesus said to them, “The cup that I drink you will drink, and with the baptism with which I am baptized, you will be baptized, 
Mark 10:40
but to sit at my right hand or at my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared.” 
Mark 10:42
And Jesus called them to him and said to them, “You know that those who are considered rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. 
Mark 10:43
But it shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant, 
Mark 10:44
and whoever would be first among you must be slave of all. 
Mark 10:45
For even the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.” 
Mark 10:49
And Jesus stopped and said, “Call him.” And they called the blind man, saying to him, “Take heart. Get up; he is calling you.” 
Mark 10:51
And Jesus said to him, “What do you want me to do for you?” And the blind man said to him, “Rabbi, let me recover my sight.” 
Mark 10:52
And Jesus said to him, “Go your way; your faith has made you well.” And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him on the way. 
Mark 11:2
and said to them, “Go into the village in front of you, and immediately as you enter it you will find a colt tied, on which no one has ever sat. Untie it and bring it. 
Mark 11:3
If anyone says to you, ‘Why are you doing this?’ say, ‘The Lord has need of it and will send it back here immediately.’ ” 
Mark 11:14
And he said to it, “May no one ever eat fruit from you again.” And his disciples heard it. 
Mark 11:17
And he was teaching them and saying to them, “Is it not written, ‘My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations’? But you have made it a den of robbers.” 
Mark 11:22
And Jesus answered them, “Have faith in God. 
Mark 11:23
Truly, I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, ‘Be taken up and thrown into the sea,’ and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him. 
Mark 11:24
Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours. 
Mark 11:25
And whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses.” 
Mark 11:29
Jesus said to them, “I will ask you one question; answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. 
Mark 11:30
Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man? Answer me.” 
Mark 11:33
So they answered Jesus, “We do not know.” And Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.” 
Mark 12:1
And he began to speak to them in parables. “A man planted a vineyard and put a fence around it and dug a pit for the winepress and built a tower, and leased it to tenants and went into another country. 
Mark 12:2
When the season came, he sent a servant to the tenants to get from them some of the fruit of the vineyard. 
Mark 12:3
And they took him and beat him and sent him away empty-handed. 
Mark 12:4
Again he sent to them another servant, and they struck him on the head and treated him shamefully. 
Mark 12:5
And he sent another, and him they killed. And so with many others: some they beat, and some they killed. 
Mark 12:6
He had still one other, a beloved son. Finally he sent him to them, saying, ‘They will respect my son.’ 
Mark 12:7
But those tenants said to one another, ‘This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.’ 
Mark 12:8
And they took him and killed him and threw him out of the vineyard. 
Mark 12:9
What will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the tenants and give the vineyard to others. 
Mark 12:10
Have you not read this Scripture: “ ‘The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone; 
Mark 12:11
this was the Lord’s doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes’?” 
Mark 12:15
But, knowing their hypocrisy, he said to them, “Why put me to the test? Bring me a denarius and let me look at it.” 
Mark 12:16
And they brought one. And he said to them, “Whose likeness and inscription is this?” They said to him, “Caesar’s.” 
Mark 12:17
Jesus said to them, “Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.” And they marveled at him. 
Mark 12:24
Jesus said to them, “Is this not the reason you are wrong, because you know neither the Scriptures nor the power of God? 
Mark 12:25
For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. 
Mark 12:26
And as for the dead being raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the passage about the bush, how God spoke to him, saying, ‘I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’? 
Mark 12:27
He is not God of the dead, but of the living. You are quite wrong.” 
Mark 12:29
Jesus answered, “The most important is, ‘Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one. 
Mark 12:30
And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.’ 
Mark 12:31
The second is this: ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’ There is no other commandment greater than these.” 
Mark 12:34
And when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, “You are not far from the kingdom of God.” And after that no one dared to ask him any more questions. 
Mark 12:35
And as Jesus taught in the temple, he said, “How can the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David? 
Mark 12:36
David himself, in the Holy Spirit, declared, “ ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at my right hand, until I put your enemies under your feet.” ’ 
Mark 12:37
David himself calls him Lord. So how is he his son?” And the great throng heard him gladly. 
Mark 12:38
And in his teaching he said, “Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes and like greetings in the marketplaces 
Mark 12:39
and have the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts, 
Mark 12:40
who devour widows’ houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation.” 
Mark 12:43
And he called his disciples to him and said to them, “Truly, I say to you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to the offering box. 
Mark 12:44
For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty has put in everything she had, all she had to live on.” 
Mark 13:2
And Jesus said to him, “Do you see these great buildings? There will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down.” 
Mark 13:5
And Jesus began to say to them, “See that no one leads you astray. 
Mark 13:6
Many will come in my name, saying, ‘I am he!’ and they will lead many astray. 
Mark 13:7
And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed. This must take place, but the end is not yet. 
Mark 13:8
For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There will be earthquakes in various places; there will be famines. These are but the beginning of the birth pains. 
Mark 13:9
“But be on your guard. For they will deliver you over to councils, and you will be beaten in synagogues, and you will stand before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness before them. 
Mark 13:10
And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all nations. 
Mark 13:11
And when they bring you to trial and deliver you over, do not be anxious beforehand what you are to say, but say whatever is given you in that hour, for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit. 
Mark 13:12
And brother will deliver brother over to death, and the father his child, and children will rise against parents and have them put to death. 
Mark 13:13
And you will be hated by all for my name’s sake. But the one who endures to the end will be saved. 
Mark 13:14
“But when you see the abomination of desolation standing where he ought not to be (let the reader understand), then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. 
Mark 13:15
Let the one who is on the housetop not go down, nor enter his house, to take anything out, 
Mark 13:16
and let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak. 
Mark 13:17
And alas for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days! 
Mark 13:18
Pray that it may not happen in winter. 
Mark 13:19
For in those days there will be such tribulation as has not been from the beginning of the creation that God created until now, and never will be. 
Mark 13:20
And if the Lord had not cut short the days, no human being would be saved. But for the sake of the elect, whom he chose, he shortened the days. 
Mark 13:21
And then if anyone says to you, ‘Look, here is the Christ!’ or ‘Look, there he is!’ do not believe it. 
Mark 13:22
For false christs and false prophets will arise and perform signs and wonders, to lead astray, if possible, the elect. 
Mark 13:23
But be on guard; I have told you all things beforehand. 
Mark 13:24
“But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, 
Mark 13:25
and the stars will be falling from heaven, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken. 
Mark 13:26
And then they will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory. 
Mark 13:27
And then he will send out the angels and gather his elect from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of heaven. 
Mark 13:28
“From the fig tree learn its lesson: as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near. 
Mark 13:29
So also, when you see these things taking place, you know that he is near, at the very gates. 
Mark 13:30
Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. 
Mark 13:31
Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. 
Mark 13:32
“But concerning that day or that hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. 
Mark 13:33
Be on guard, keep awake. For you do not know when the time will come. 
Mark 13:34
It is like a man going on a journey, when he leaves home and puts his servants in charge, each with his work, and commands the doorkeeper to stay awake. 
Mark 13:35
Therefore stay awake—for you do not know when the master of the house will come, in the evening, or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning— 
Mark 13:36
lest he come suddenly and find you asleep. 
Mark 13:37
And what I say to you I say to all: Stay awake.” 
Mark 14:6
But Jesus said, “Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a beautiful thing to me. 
Mark 14:7
For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you want, you can do good for them. But you will not always have me. 
Mark 14:8
She has done what she could; she has anointed my body beforehand for burial. 
Mark 14:9
And truly, I say to you, wherever the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will be told in memory of her.” 
Mark 14:13
And he sent two of his disciples and said to them, “Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him, 
Mark 14:14
and wherever he enters, say to the master of the house, ‘The Teacher says, Where is my guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?’ 
Mark 14:15
And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready; there prepare for us.” 
Mark 14:18
And as they were reclining at table and eating, Jesus said, “Truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me, one who is eating with me.” 
Mark 14:20
He said to them, “It is one of the twelve, one who is dipping bread into the dish with me. 
Mark 14:21
For the Son of Man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been better for that man if he had not been born.” 
Mark 14:22
And as they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to them, and said, “Take; this is my body.” 
Mark 14:24
And he said to them, “This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many. 
Mark 14:25
Truly, I say to you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.” 
Mark 14:27
And Jesus said to them, “You will all fall away, for it is written, ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.’ 
Mark 14:28
But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee.” 
Mark 14:30
And Jesus said to him, “Truly, I tell you, this very night, before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.” 
Mark 14:32
And they went to a place called Gethsemane. And he said to his disciples, “Sit here while I pray.” 
Mark 14:34
And he said to them, “My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch.” 
Mark 14:36
And he said, “Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will.” 
Mark 14:37
And he came and found them sleeping, and he said to Peter, “Simon, are you asleep? Could you not watch one hour? 
Mark 14:38
Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.” 
Mark 14:41
And he came the third time and said to them, “Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? It is enough; the hour has come. The Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. 
Mark 14:42
Rise, let us be going; see, my betrayer is at hand.” 
Mark 14:48
And Jesus said to them, “Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs to capture me? 
Mark 14:49
Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. But let the Scriptures be fulfilled.” 
Mark 14:62
And Jesus said, “I am, and you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of Power, and coming with the clouds of heaven.” 
Mark 14:72
And immediately the rooster crowed a second time. And Peter remembered how Jesus had said to him, “Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.” And he broke down and wept. 
Mark 15:2
And Pilate asked him, “Are you the King of the Jews?” And he answered him, “You have said so.” 
Mark 15:34
And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, “Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?” which means, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?” 
Mark 16:15
And he said to them, “Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation. 
Mark 16:16
Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned. 
Mark 16:17
And these signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will speak in new tongues; 
Mark 16:18
they will pick up serpents with their hands; and if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them; they will lay their hands on the sick, and they will recover.” 
Luke 2:49
And he said to them, “Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father’s house?” 
Luke 4:4
And Jesus answered him, “It is written, ‘Man shall not live by bread alone.’ ” 
Luke 4:8
And Jesus answered him, “It is written, “ ‘You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve.’ ” 
Luke 4:12
And Jesus answered him, “It is said, ‘You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.’ ” 
Luke 4:18
“The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, 
Luke 4:19
to proclaim the year of the Lord’s favor.” 
Luke 4:21
And he began to say to them, “Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing.” 
Luke 4:23
And he said to them, “Doubtless you will quote to me this proverb, ‘Physician, heal yourself.’ What we have heard you did at Capernaum, do here in your hometown as well.” 
Luke 4:24
And he said, “Truly, I say to you, no prophet is acceptable in his hometown. 
Luke 4:25
But in truth, I tell you, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heavens were shut up three years and six months, and a great famine came over all the land, 
Luke 4:26
and Elijah was sent to none of them but only to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow. 
Luke 4:27
And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha, and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian.” 
Luke 4:35
But Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be silent and come out of him!” And when the demon had thrown him down in their midst, he came out of him, having done him no harm. 
Luke 4:43
but he said to them, “I must preach the good news of the kingdom of God to the other towns as well; for I was sent for this purpose.” 
Luke 5:4
And when he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, “Put out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch.” 
Luke 5:10
and so also were James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, “Do not be afraid; from now on you will be catching men.” 
Luke 5:13
And Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, “I will; be clean.” And immediately the leprosy left him. 
Luke 5:14
And he charged him to tell no one, but “go and show yourself to the priest, and make an offering for your cleansing, as Moses commanded, for a proof to them.” 
Luke 5:20
And when he saw their faith, he said, “Man, your sins are forgiven you.” 
Luke 5:22
When Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answered them, “Why do you question in your hearts? 
Luke 5:23
Which is easier, to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven you,’ or to say, ‘Rise and walk’? 
Luke 5:24
But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins”—he said to the man who was paralyzed—“I say to you, rise, pick up your bed and go home.” 
Luke 5:27
After this he went out and saw a tax collector named Levi, sitting at the tax booth. And he said to him, “Follow me.” 
Luke 5:31
And Jesus answered them, “Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. 
Luke 5:32
I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance.” 
Luke 5:34
And Jesus said to them, “Can you make wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? 
Luke 5:35
The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days.” 
Luke 5:36
He also told them a parable: “No one tears a piece from a new garment and puts it on an old garment. If he does, he will tear the new, and the piece from the new will not match the old. 
Luke 5:37
And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the new wine will burst the skins and it will be spilled, and the skins will be destroyed. 
Luke 5:38
But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins. 
Luke 5:39
And no one after drinking old wine desires new, for he says, ‘The old is good.’ ” 
Luke 6:3
And Jesus answered them, “Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him: 
Luke 6:4
how he entered the house of God and took and ate the bread of the Presence, which is not lawful for any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those with him?” 
Luke 6:5
And he said to them, “The Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath.” 
Luke 6:8
But he knew their thoughts, and he said to the man with the withered hand, “Come and stand here.” And he rose and stood there. 
Luke 6:9
And Jesus said to them, “I ask you, is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to destroy it?” 
Luke 6:10
And after looking around at them all he said to him, “Stretch out your hand.” And he did so, and his hand was restored. 
Luke 6:20
And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said: “Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. 
Luke 6:21
“Blessed are you who are hungry now, for you shall be satisfied. “Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh. 
Luke 6:22
“Blessed are you when people hate you and when they exclude you and revile you and spurn your name as evil, on account of the Son of Man! 
Luke 6:23
Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven; for so their fathers did to the prophets. 
Luke 6:24
“But woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation. 
Luke 6:25
“Woe to you who are full now, for you shall be hungry. “Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep. 
Luke 6:26
“Woe to you, when all people speak well of you, for so their fathers did to the false prophets. 
Luke 6:27
“But I say to you who hear, Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, 
Luke 6:28
bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you. 
Luke 6:29
To one who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also, and from one who takes away your cloak do not withhold your tunic either. 
Luke 6:30
Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away your goods do not demand them back. 
Luke 6:31
And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them. 
Luke 6:32
“If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. 
Luke 6:33
And if you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. 
Luke 6:34
And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, to get back the same amount. 
Luke 6:35
But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. 
Luke 6:36
Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful. 
Luke 6:37
“Judge not, and you will not be judged; condemn not, and you will not be condemned; forgive, and you will be forgiven; 
Luke 6:38
give, and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will be put into your lap. For with the measure you use it will be measured back to you.” 
Luke 6:39
He also told them a parable: “Can a blind man lead a blind man? Will they not both fall into a pit? 
Luke 6:40
A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone when he is fully trained will be like his teacher. 
Luke 6:41
Why do you see the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? 
Luke 6:42
How can you say to your brother, ‘Brother, let me take out the speck that is in your eye,’ when you yourself do not see the log that is in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take out the speck that is in your brother’s eye. 
Luke 6:43
“For no good tree bears bad fruit, nor again does a bad tree bear good fruit, 
Luke 6:44
for each tree is known by its own fruit. For figs are not gathered from thornbushes, nor are grapes picked from a bramble bush. 
Luke 6:45
The good person out of the good treasure of his heart produces good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure produces evil, for out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks. 
Luke 6:46
“Why do you call me ‘Lord, Lord,’ and not do what I tell you? 
Luke 6:47
Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you what he is like: 
Luke 6:48
he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built. 
Luke 6:49
But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it, immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great.” 
Luke 7:9
When Jesus heard these things, he marveled at him, and turning to the crowd that followed him, said, “I tell you, not even in Israel have I found such faith.” 
Luke 7:13
And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said to her, “Do not weep.” 
Luke 7:14
Then he came up and touched the bier, and the bearers stood still. And he said, “Young man, I say to you, arise.” 
Luke 7:22
And he answered them, “Go and tell John what you have seen and heard: the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, the poor have good news preached to them. 
Luke 7:23
And blessed is the one who is not offended by me.” 
Luke 7:24
When John’s messengers had gone, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John: “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? 
Luke 7:25
What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who are dressed in splendid clothing and live in luxury are in kings’ courts. 
Luke 7:26
What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet. 
Luke 7:27
This is he of whom it is written, “ ‘Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.’ 
Luke 7:28
I tell you, among those born of women none is greater than John. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.” 
Luke 7:31
“To what then shall I compare the people of this generation, and what are they like? 
Luke 7:32
They are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another, “ ‘We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge, and you did not weep.’ 
Luke 7:33
For John the Baptist has come eating no bread and drinking no wine, and you say, ‘He has a demon.’ 
Luke 7:34
The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and you say, ‘Look at him! A glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’ 
Luke 7:35
Yet wisdom is justified by all her children.” 
Luke 7:40
And Jesus answering said to him, “Simon, I have something to say to you.” And he answered, “Say it, Teacher.” 
Luke 7:41
“A certain moneylender had two debtors. One owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty. 
Luke 7:42
When they could not pay, he cancelled the debt of both. Now which of them will love him more?” 
Luke 7:43
Simon answered, “The one, I suppose, for whom he cancelled the larger debt.” And he said to him, “You have judged rightly.” 
Luke 7:44
Then turning toward the woman he said to Simon, “Do you see this woman? I entered your house; you gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair. 
Luke 7:45
You gave me no kiss, but from the time I came in she has not ceased to kiss my feet. 
Luke 7:46
You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment. 
Luke 7:47
Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven—for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little.” 
Luke 7:48
And he said to her, “Your sins are forgiven.” 
Luke 7:50
And he said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you; go in peace.” 
Luke 8:5
“A sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell along the path and was trampled underfoot, and the birds of the air devoured it. 
Luke 8:6
And some fell on the rock, and as it grew up, it withered away, because it had no moisture. 
Luke 8:7
And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up with it and choked it. 
Luke 8:8
And some fell into good soil and grew and yielded a hundredfold.” As he said these things, he called out, “He who has ears to hear, let him hear.” 
Luke 8:10
he said, “To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of God, but for others they are in parables, so that ‘seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand.’ 
Luke 8:11
Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. 
Luke 8:12
The ones along the path are those who have heard; then the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts, so that they may not believe and be saved. 
Luke 8:13
And the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear the word, receive it with joy. But these have no root; they believe for a while, and in time of testing fall away. 
Luke 8:14
And as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear, but as they go on their way they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and their fruit does not mature. 
Luke 8:15
As for that in the good soil, they are those who, hearing the word, hold it fast in an honest and good heart, and bear fruit with patience. 
Luke 8:16
“No one after lighting a lamp covers it with a jar or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a stand, so that those who enter may see the light. 
Luke 8:17
For nothing is hidden that will not be made manifest, nor is anything secret that will not be known and come to light. 
Luke 8:18
Take care then how you hear, for to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he thinks that he has will be taken away.” 
Luke 8:21
But he answered them, “My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it.” 
Luke 8:22
One day he got into a boat with his disciples, and he said to them, “Let us go across to the other side of the lake.” So they set out, 
Luke 8:25
He said to them, “Where is your faith?” And they were afraid, and they marveled, saying to one another, “Who then is this, that he commands even winds and water, and they obey him?” 
Luke 8:30
Jesus then asked him, “What is your name?” And he said, “Legion,” for many demons had entered him. 
Luke 8:39
“Return to your home, and declare how much God has done for you.” And he went away, proclaiming throughout the whole city how much Jesus had done for him. 
Luke 8:45
And Jesus said, “Who was it that touched me?” When all denied it, Peter said, “Master, the crowds surround you and are pressing in on you!” 
Luke 8:46
But Jesus said, “Someone touched me, for I perceive that power has gone out from me.” 
Luke 8:48
And he said to her, “Daughter, your faith has made you well; go in peace.” 
Luke 8:50
But Jesus on hearing this answered him, “Do not fear; only believe, and she will be well.” 
Luke 8:52
And all were weeping and mourning for her, but he said, “Do not weep, for she is not dead but sleeping.” 
Luke 8:54
But taking her by the hand he called, saying, “Child, arise.” 
Luke 9:3
And he said to them, “Take nothing for your journey, no staff, nor bag, nor bread, nor money; and do not have two tunics. 
Luke 9:4
And whatever house you enter, stay there, and from there depart. 
Luke 9:5
And wherever they do not receive you, when you leave that town shake off the dust from your feet as a testimony against them.” 
Luke 9:13
But he said to them, “You give them something to eat.” They said, “We have no more than five loaves and two fish—unless we are to go and buy food for all these people.” 
Luke 9:14
For there were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, “Have them sit down in groups of about fifty each.” 
Luke 9:18
Now it happened that as he was praying alone, the disciples were with him. And he asked them, “Who do the crowds say that I am?” 
Luke 9:20
Then he said to them, “But who do you say that I am?” And Peter answered, “The Christ of God.” 
Luke 9:22
saying, “The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised.” 
Luke 9:23
And he said to all, “If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. 
Luke 9:24
For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. 
Luke 9:25
For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses or forfeits himself? 
Luke 9:26
For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words, of him will the Son of Man be ashamed when he comes in his glory and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels. 
Luke 9:27
But I tell you truly, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God.” 
Luke 9:41
Jesus answered, “O faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you and bear with you? Bring your son here.” 
Luke 9:44
“Let these words sink into your ears: The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men.” 
Luke 9:48
and said to them, “Whoever receives this child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me. For he who is least among you all is the one who is great.” 
Luke 9:50
But Jesus said to him, “Do not stop him, for the one who is not against you is for you.” 
Luke 9:58
And Jesus said to him, “Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.” 
Luke 9:59
To another he said, “Follow me.” But he said, “Lord, let me first go and bury my father.” 
Luke 9:60
And Jesus said to him, “Leave the dead to bury their own dead. But as for you, go and proclaim the kingdom of God.” 
Luke 9:62
Jesus said to him, “No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God.” 
Luke 10:2
And he said to them, “The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. 
Luke 10:3
Go your way; behold, I am sending you out as lambs in the midst of wolves. 
Luke 10:4
Carry no moneybag, no knapsack, no sandals, and greet no one on the road. 
Luke 10:5
Whatever house you enter, first say, ‘Peace be to this house!’ 
Luke 10:6
And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him. But if not, it will return to you. 
Luke 10:7
And remain in the same house, eating and drinking what they provide, for the laborer deserves his wages. Do not go from house to house. 
Luke 10:8
Whenever you enter a town and they receive you, eat what is set before you. 
Luke 10:9
Heal the sick in it and say to them, ‘The kingdom of God has come near to you.’ 
Luke 10:10
But whenever you enter a town and they do not receive you, go into its streets and say, 
Luke 10:11
‘Even the dust of your town that clings to our feet we wipe off against you. Nevertheless know this, that the kingdom of God has come near.’ 
Luke 10:12
I tell you, it will be more bearable on that day for Sodom than for that town. 
Luke 10:13
“Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. 
Luke 10:14
But it will be more bearable in the judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you. 
Luke 10:15
And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You shall be brought down to Hades. 
Luke 10:16
“The one who hears you hears me, and the one who rejects you rejects me, and the one who rejects me rejects him who sent me.” 
Luke 10:18
And he said to them, “I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. 
Luke 10:19
Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you. 
Luke 10:20
Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.” 
Luke 10:21
In that same hour he rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said, “I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children; yes, Father, for such was your gracious will. 
Luke 10:22
All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows who the Son is except the Father, or who the Father is except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him.” 
Luke 10:23
Then turning to the disciples he said privately, “Blessed are the eyes that see what you see! 
Luke 10:24
For I tell you that many prophets and kings desired to see what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear it.” 
Luke 10:26
He said to him, “What is written in the Law? How do you read it?” 
Luke 10:28
And he said to him, “You have answered correctly; do this, and you will live.” 
Luke 10:30
Jesus replied, “A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who stripped him and beat him and departed, leaving him half dead. 
Luke 10:31
Now by chance a priest was going down that road, and when he saw him he passed by on the other side. 
Luke 10:32
So likewise a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. 
Luke 10:33
But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion. 
Luke 10:34
He went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he set him on his own animal and brought him to an inn and took care of him. 
Luke 10:35
And the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper, saying, ‘Take care of him, and whatever more you spend, I will repay you when I come back.’ 
Luke 10:36
Which of these three, do you think, proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers?” 
Luke 10:37
He said, “The one who showed him mercy.” And Jesus said to him, “You go, and do likewise.” 
Luke 10:41
But the Lord answered her, “Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things, 
Luke 10:42
but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion, which will not be taken away from her.” 
Luke 11:2
And he said to them, “When you pray, say: “Father, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. 
Luke 11:3
Give us each day our daily bread, 
Luke 11:4
and forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation.” 
Luke 11:5
And he said to them, “Which of you who has a friend will go to him at midnight and say to him, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves, 
Luke 11:6
for a friend of mine has arrived on a journey, and I have nothing to set before him’; 
Luke 11:7
and he will answer from within, ‘Do not bother me; the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot get up and give you anything’? 
Luke 11:8
I tell you, though he will not get up and give him anything because he is his friend, yet because of his impudence he will rise and give him whatever he needs. 
Luke 11:9
And I tell you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you. 
Luke 11:10
For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. 
Luke 11:11
What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead of a fish give him a serpent; 
Luke 11:12
or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion? 
Luke 11:13
If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!” 
Luke 11:17
But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, “Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and a divided household falls. 
Luke 11:18
And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebul. 
Luke 11:19
And if I cast out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges. 
Luke 11:20
But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. 
Luke 11:21
When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own palace, his goods are safe; 
Luke 11:22
but when one stronger than he attacks him and overcomes him, he takes away his armor in which he trusted and divides his spoil. 
Luke 11:23
Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters. 
Luke 11:24
“When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places seeking rest, and finding none it says, ‘I will return to my house from which I came.’ 
Luke 11:25
And when it comes, it finds the house swept and put in order. 
Luke 11:26
Then it goes and brings seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there. And the last state of that person is worse than the first.” 
Luke 11:28
But he said, “Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it!” 
Luke 11:29
When the crowds were increasing, he began to say, “This generation is an evil generation. It seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah. 
Luke 11:30
For as Jonah became a sign to the people of Nineveh, so will the Son of Man be to this generation. 
Luke 11:31
The queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with the men of this generation and condemn them, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is here. 
Luke 11:32
The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here. 
Luke 11:33
“No one after lighting a lamp puts it in a cellar or under a basket, but on a stand, so that those who enter may see the light. 
Luke 11:34
Your eye is the lamp of your body. When your eye is healthy, your whole body is full of light, but when it is bad, your body is full of darkness. 
Luke 11:35
Therefore be careful lest the light in you be darkness. 
Luke 11:36
If then your whole body is full of light, having no part dark, it will be wholly bright, as when a lamp with its rays gives you light.” 
Luke 11:39
And the Lord said to him, “Now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside you are full of greed and wickedness. 
Luke 11:40
You fools! Did not he who made the outside make the inside also? 
Luke 11:41
But give as alms those things that are within, and behold, everything is clean for you. 
Luke 11:42
“But woe to you Pharisees! For you tithe mint and rue and every herb, and neglect justice and the love of God. These you ought to have done, without neglecting the others. 
Luke 11:43
Woe to you Pharisees! For you love the best seat in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces. 
Luke 11:44
Woe to you! For you are like unmarked graves, and people walk over them without knowing it.” 
Luke 11:46
And he said, “Woe to you lawyers also! For you load people with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers. 
Luke 11:47
Woe to you! For you build the tombs of the prophets whom your fathers killed. 
Luke 11:48
So you are witnesses and you consent to the deeds of your fathers, for they killed them, and you build their tombs. 
Luke 11:49
Therefore also the Wisdom of God said, ‘I will send them prophets and apostles, some of whom they will kill and persecute,’ 
Luke 11:50
so that the blood of all the prophets, shed from the foundation of the world, may be charged against this generation, 
Luke 11:51
from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary. Yes, I tell you, it will be required of this generation. 
Luke 11:52
Woe to you lawyers! For you have taken away the key of knowledge. You did not enter yourselves, and you hindered those who were entering.” 
Luke 12:1
In the meantime, when so many thousands of the people had gathered together that they were trampling one another, he began to say to his disciples first, “Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. 
Luke 12:2
Nothing is covered up that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known. 
Luke 12:3
Therefore whatever you have said in the dark shall be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in private rooms shall be proclaimed on the housetops. 
Luke 12:4
“I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more that they can do. 
Luke 12:5
But I will warn you whom to fear: fear him who, after he has killed, has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him! 
Luke 12:6
Are not five sparrows sold for two pennies? And not one of them is forgotten before God. 
Luke 12:7
Why, even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not; you are of more value than many sparrows. 
Luke 12:8
“And I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the Son of Man also will acknowledge before the angels of God, 
Luke 12:9
but the one who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. 
Luke 12:10
And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but the one who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven. 
Luke 12:11
And when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities, do not be anxious about how you should defend yourself or what you should say, 
Luke 12:12
for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say.” 
Luke 12:14
But he said to him, “Man, who made me a judge or arbitrator over you?” 
Luke 12:15
And he said to them, “Take care, and be on your guard against all covetousness, for one’s life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions.” 
Luke 12:16
And he told them a parable, saying, “The land of a rich man produced plentifully, 
Luke 12:17
and he thought to himself, ‘What shall I do, for I have nowhere to store my crops?’ 
Luke 12:18
And he said, ‘I will do this: I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods. 
Luke 12:19
And I will say to my soul, “Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years; relax, eat, drink, be merry.” ’ 
Luke 12:20
But God said to him, ‘Fool! This night your soul is required of you, and the things you have prepared, whose will they be?’ 
Luke 12:21
So is the one who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God.” 
Luke 12:22
And he said to his disciples, “Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat, nor about your body, what you will put on. 
Luke 12:23
For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing. 
Luke 12:24
Consider the ravens: they neither sow nor reap, they have neither storehouse nor barn, and yet God feeds them. Of how much more value are you than the birds! 
Luke 12:25
And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life? 
Luke 12:26
If then you are not able to do as small a thing as that, why are you anxious about the rest? 
Luke 12:27
Consider the lilies, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin, yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. 
Luke 12:28
But if God so clothes the grass, which is alive in the field today, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O you of little faith! 
Luke 12:29
And do not seek what you are to eat and what you are to drink, nor be worried. 
Luke 12:30
For all the nations of the world seek after these things, and your Father knows that you need them. 
Luke 12:31
Instead, seek his kingdom, and these things will be added to you. 
Luke 12:32
“Fear not, little flock, for it is your Father’s good pleasure to give you the kingdom. 
Luke 12:33
Sell your possessions, and give to the needy. Provide yourselves with moneybags that do not grow old, with a treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys. 
Luke 12:34
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. 
Luke 12:35
“Stay dressed for action and keep your lamps burning, 
Luke 12:36
and be like men who are waiting for their master to come home from the wedding feast, so that they may open the door to him at once when he comes and knocks. 
Luke 12:37
Blessed are those servants whom the master finds awake when he comes. Truly, I say to you, he will dress himself for service and have them recline at table, and he will come and serve them. 
Luke 12:38
If he comes in the second watch, or in the third, and finds them awake, blessed are those servants! 
Luke 12:39
But know this, that if the master of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would not have left his house to be broken into. 
Luke 12:40
You also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.” 
Luke 12:42
And the Lord said, “Who then is the faithful and wise manager, whom his master will set over his household, to give them their portion of food at the proper time? 
Luke 12:43
Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes. 
Luke 12:44
Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions. 
Luke 12:45
But if that servant says to himself, ‘My master is delayed in coming,’ and begins to beat the male and female servants, and to eat and drink and get drunk, 
Luke 12:46
the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not know, and will cut him in pieces and put him with the unfaithful. 
Luke 12:47
And that servant who knew his master’s will but did not get ready or act according to his will, will receive a severe beating. 
Luke 12:48
But the one who did not know, and did what deserved a beating, will receive a light beating. Everyone to whom much was given, of him much will be required, and from him to whom they entrusted much, they will demand the more. 
Luke 12:49
“I came to cast fire on the earth, and would that it were already kindled! 
Luke 12:50
I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how great is my distress until it is accomplished! 
Luke 12:51
Do you think that I have come to give peace on earth? No, I tell you, but rather division. 
Luke 12:52
For from now on in one house there will be five divided, three against two and two against three. 
Luke 12:53
They will be divided, father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law.” 
Luke 12:54
He also said to the crowds, “When you see a cloud rising in the west, you say at once, ‘A shower is coming.’ And so it happens. 
Luke 12:55
And when you see the south wind blowing, you say, ‘There will be scorching heat,’ and it happens. 
Luke 12:56
You hypocrites! You know how to interpret the appearance of earth and sky, but why do you not know how to interpret the present time? 
Luke 12:57
“And why do you not judge for yourselves what is right? 
Luke 12:58
As you go with your accuser before the magistrate, make an effort to settle with him on the way, lest he drag you to the judge, and the judge hand you over to the officer, and the officer put you in prison. 
Luke 12:59
I tell you, you will never get out until you have paid the very last penny.” 
Luke 13:2
And he answered them, “Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans, because they suffered in this way? 
Luke 13:3
No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. 
Luke 13:4
Or those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them: do you think that they were worse offenders than all the others who lived in Jerusalem? 
Luke 13:5
No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish.” 
Luke 13:6
And he told this parable: “A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it and found none. 
Luke 13:7
And he said to the vinedresser, ‘Look, for three years now I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I find none. Cut it down. Why should it use up the ground?’ 
Luke 13:8
And he answered him, ‘Sir, let it alone this year also, until I dig around it and put on manure. 
Luke 13:9
Then if it should bear fruit next year, well and good; but if not, you can cut it down.’ ” 
Luke 13:12
When Jesus saw her, he called her over and said to her, “Woman, you are freed from your disability.” 
Luke 13:15
Then the Lord answered him, “You hypocrites! Does not each of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or his donkey from the manger and lead it away to water it? 
Luke 13:16
And ought not this woman, a daughter of Abraham whom Satan bound for eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day?” 
Luke 13:18
He said therefore, “What is the kingdom of God like? And to what shall I compare it? 
Luke 13:19
It is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his garden, and it grew and became a tree, and the birds of the air made nests in its branches.” 
Luke 13:20
And again he said, “To what shall I compare the kingdom of God? 
Luke 13:21
It is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, until it was all leavened.” 
Luke 13:24
“Strive to enter through the narrow door. For many, I tell you, will seek to enter and will not be able. 
Luke 13:25
When once the master of the house has risen and shut the door, and you begin to stand outside and to knock at the door, saying, ‘Lord, open to us,’ then he will answer you, ‘I do not know where you come from.’ 
Luke 13:26
Then you will begin to say, ‘We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets.’ 
Luke 13:27
But he will say, ‘I tell you, I do not know where you come from. Depart from me, all you workers of evil!’ 
Luke 13:28
In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God but you yourselves cast out. 
Luke 13:29
And people will come from east and west, and from north and south, and recline at table in the kingdom of God. 
Luke 13:30
And behold, some are last who will be first, and some are first who will be last.” 
Luke 13:32
And he said to them, “Go and tell that fox, ‘Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I finish my course. 
Luke 13:33
Nevertheless, I must go on my way today and tomorrow and the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet should perish away from Jerusalem.’ 
Luke 13:34
O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it! How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing! 
Luke 13:35
Behold, your house is forsaken. And I tell you, you will not see me until you say, ‘Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!’ ” 
Luke 14:3
And Jesus responded to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath, or not?” 
Luke 14:5
And he said to them, “Which of you, having a son or an ox that has fallen into a well on a Sabbath day, will not immediately pull him out?” 
Luke 14:8
“When you are invited by someone to a wedding feast, do not sit down in a place of honor, lest someone more distinguished than you be invited by him, 
Luke 14:9
and he who invited you both will come and say to you, ‘Give your place to this person,’ and then you will begin with shame to take the lowest place. 
Luke 14:10
But when you are invited, go and sit in the lowest place, so that when your host comes he may say to you, ‘Friend, move up higher.’ Then you will be honored in the presence of all who sit at table with you. 
Luke 14:11
For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted.” 
Luke 14:12
He said also to the man who had invited him, “When you give a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return and you be repaid. 
Luke 14:13
But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind, 
Luke 14:14
and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you. For you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just.” 
Luke 14:16
But he said to him, “A man once gave a great banquet and invited many. 
Luke 14:17
And at the time for the banquet he sent his servant to say to those who had been invited, ‘Come, for everything is now ready.’ 
Luke 14:18
But they all alike began to make excuses. The first said to him, ‘I have bought a field, and I must go out and see it. Please have me excused.’ 
Luke 14:19
And another said, ‘I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to examine them. Please have me excused.’ 
Luke 14:20
And another said, ‘I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.’ 
Luke 14:21
So the servant came and reported these things to his master. Then the master of the house became angry and said to his servant, ‘Go out quickly to the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in the poor and crippled and blind and lame.’ 
Luke 14:22
And the servant said, ‘Sir, what you commanded has been done, and still there is room.’ 
Luke 14:23
And the master said to the servant, ‘Go out to the highways and hedges and compel people to come in, that my house may be filled. 
Luke 14:24
For I tell you, none of those men who were invited shall taste my banquet.’ ” 
Luke 14:26
“If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. 
Luke 14:27
Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. 
Luke 14:28
For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete it? 
Luke 14:29
Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who see it begin to mock him, 
Luke 14:30
saying, ‘This man began to build and was not able to finish.’ 
Luke 14:31
Or what king, going out to encounter another king in war, will not sit down first and deliberate whether he is able with ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand? 
Luke 14:32
And if not, while the other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of peace. 
Luke 14:33
So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple. 
Luke 14:34
“Salt is good, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? 
Luke 14:35
It is of no use either for the soil or for the manure pile. It is thrown away. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.” 
Luke 15:4
“What man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the open country, and go after the one that is lost, until he finds it? 
Luke 15:5
And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing. 
Luke 15:6
And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost.’ 
Luke 15:7
Just so, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who need no repentance. 
Luke 15:8
“Or what woman, having ten silver coins, if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek diligently until she finds it? 
Luke 15:9
And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin that I had lost.’ 
Luke 15:10
Just so, I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents.” 
Luke 15:11
And he said, “There was a man who had two sons. 
Luke 15:12
And the younger of them said to his father, ‘Father, give me the share of property that is coming to me.’ And he divided his property between them. 
Luke 15:13
Not many days later, the younger son gathered all he had and took a journey into a far country, and there he squandered his property in reckless living. 
Luke 15:14
And when he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in that country, and he began to be in need. 
Luke 15:15
So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed pigs. 
Luke 15:16
And he was longing to be fed with the pods that the pigs ate, and no one gave him anything. 
Luke 15:17
“But when he came to himself, he said, ‘How many of my father’s hired servants have more than enough bread, but I perish here with hunger! 
Luke 15:18
I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him, “Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. 
Luke 15:19
I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Treat me as one of your hired servants.” ’ 
Luke 15:20
And he arose and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion, and ran and embraced him and kissed him. 
Luke 15:21
And the son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son.’ 
Luke 15:22
But the father said to his servants, ‘Bring quickly the best robe, and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet. 
Luke 15:23
And bring the fattened calf and kill it, and let us eat and celebrate. 
Luke 15:24
For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found.’ And they began to celebrate. 
Luke 15:25
“Now his older son was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing. 
Luke 15:26
And he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant. 
Luke 15:27
And he said to him, ‘Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf, because he has received him back safe and sound.’ 
Luke 15:28
But he was angry and refused to go in. His father came out and entreated him, 
Luke 15:29
but he answered his father, ‘Look, these many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed your command, yet you never gave me a young goat, that I might celebrate with my friends. 
Luke 15:30
But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your property with prostitutes, you killed the fattened calf for him!’ 
Luke 15:31
And he said to him, ‘Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours. 
Luke 15:32
It was fitting to celebrate and be glad, for this your brother was dead, and is alive; he was lost, and is found.’ ” 
Luke 16:1
He also said to the disciples, “There was a rich man who had a manager, and charges were brought to him that this man was wasting his possessions. 
Luke 16:2
And he called him and said to him, ‘What is this that I hear about you? Turn in the account of your management, for you can no longer be manager.’ 
Luke 16:3
And the manager said to himself, ‘What shall I do, since my master is taking the management away from me? I am not strong enough to dig, and I am ashamed to beg. 
Luke 16:4
I have decided what to do, so that when I am removed from management, people may receive me into their houses.’ 
Luke 16:5
So, summoning his master’s debtors one by one, he said to the first, ‘How much do you owe my master?’ 
Luke 16:6
He said, ‘A hundred measures of oil.’ He said to him, ‘Take your bill, and sit down quickly and write fifty.’ 
Luke 16:7
Then he said to another, ‘And how much do you owe?’ He said, ‘A hundred measures of wheat.’ He said to him, ‘Take your bill, and write eighty.’ 
Luke 16:8
The master commended the dishonest manager for his shrewdness. For the sons of this world are more shrewd in dealing with their own generation than the sons of light. 
Luke 16:9
And I tell you, make friends for yourselves by means of unrighteous wealth, so that when it fails they may receive you into the eternal dwellings. 
Luke 16:10
“One who is faithful in a very little is also faithful in much, and one who is dishonest in a very little is also dishonest in much. 
Luke 16:11
If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will entrust to you the true riches? 
Luke 16:12
And if you have not been faithful in that which is another’s, who will give you that which is your own? 
Luke 16:13
No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.” 
Luke 16:15
And he said to them, “You are those who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts. For what is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God. 
Luke 16:16
“The Law and the Prophets were until John; since then the good news of the kingdom of God is preached, and everyone forces his way into it. 
Luke 16:17
But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one dot of the Law to become void. 
Luke 16:18
“Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and he who marries a woman divorced from her husband commits adultery. 
Luke 16:19
“There was a rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen and who feasted sumptuously every day. 
Luke 16:20
And at his gate was laid a poor man named Lazarus, covered with sores, 
Luke 16:21
who desired to be fed with what fell from the rich man’s table. Moreover, even the dogs came and licked his sores. 
Luke 16:22
The poor man died and was carried by the angels to Abraham’s side. The rich man also died and was buried, 
Luke 16:23
and in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at his side. 
Luke 16:24
And he called out, ‘Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish in this flame.’ 
Luke 16:25
But Abraham said, ‘Child, remember that you in your lifetime received your good things, and Lazarus in like manner bad things; but now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish. 
Luke 16:26
And besides all this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed, in order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us.’ 
Luke 16:27
And he said, ‘Then I beg you, father, to send him to my father’s house— 
Luke 16:28
for I have five brothers—so that he may warn them, lest they also come into this place of torment.’ 
Luke 16:29
But Abraham said, ‘They have Moses and the Prophets; let them hear them.’ 
Luke 16:30
And he said, ‘No, father Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent.’ 
Luke 16:31
He said to him, ‘If they do not hear Moses and the Prophets, neither will they be convinced if someone should rise from the dead.’ ” 
Luke 17:1
And he said to his disciples, “Temptations to sin are sure to come, but woe to the one through whom they come! 
Luke 17:2
It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were cast into the sea than that he should cause one of these little ones to sin. 
Luke 17:3
Pay attention to yourselves! If your brother sins, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him, 
Luke 17:4
and if he sins against you seven times in the day, and turns to you seven times, saying, ‘I repent,’ you must forgive him.” 
Luke 17:6
And the Lord said, “If you had faith like a grain of mustard seed, you could say to this mulberry tree, ‘Be uprooted and planted in the sea,’ and it would obey you. 
Luke 17:7
“Will any one of you who has a servant plowing or keeping sheep say to him when he has come in from the field, ‘Come at once and recline at table’? 
Luke 17:8
Will he not rather say to him, ‘Prepare supper for me, and dress properly, and serve me while I eat and drink, and afterward you will eat and drink’? 
Luke 17:9
Does he thank the servant because he did what was commanded? 
Luke 17:10
So you also, when you have done all that you were commanded, say, ‘We are unworthy servants; we have only done what was our duty.’ ” 
Luke 17:14
When he saw them he said to them, “Go and show yourselves to the priests.” And as they went they were cleansed. 
Luke 17:17
Then Jesus answered, “Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine? 
Luke 17:18
Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner?” 
Luke 17:19
And he said to him, “Rise and go your way; your faith has made you well.” 
Luke 17:20
Being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, he answered them, “The kingdom of God is not coming in ways that can be observed, 
Luke 17:21
nor will they say, ‘Look, here it is!’ or ‘There!’ for behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you.” 
Luke 17:22
And he said to the disciples, “The days are coming when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it. 
Luke 17:23
And they will say to you, ‘Look, there!’ or ‘Look, here!’ Do not go out or follow them. 
Luke 17:24
For as the lightning flashes and lights up the sky from one side to the other, so will the Son of Man be in his day. 
Luke 17:25
But first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. 
Luke 17:26
Just as it was in the days of Noah, so will it be in the days of the Son of Man. 
Luke 17:27
They were eating and drinking and marrying and being given in marriage, until the day when Noah entered the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all. 
Luke 17:28
Likewise, just as it was in the days of Lot—they were eating and drinking, buying and selling, planting and building, 
Luke 17:29
but on the day when Lot went out from Sodom, fire and sulfur rained from heaven and destroyed them all— 
Luke 17:30
so will it be on the day when the Son of Man is revealed. 
Luke 17:31
On that day, let the one who is on the housetop, with his goods in the house, not come down to take them away, and likewise let the one who is in the field not turn back. 
Luke 17:32
Remember Lot’s wife. 
Luke 17:33
Whoever seeks to preserve his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life will keep it. 
Luke 17:34
I tell you, in that night there will be two in one bed. One will be taken and the other left. 
Luke 17:35
There will be two women grinding together. One will be taken and the other left.” 
Luke 17:37
And they said to him, “Where, Lord?” He said to them, “Where the corpse is, there the vultures will gather.” 
Luke 18:2
He said, “In a certain city there was a judge who neither feared God nor respected man. 
Luke 18:3
And there was a widow in that city who kept coming to him and saying, ‘Give me justice against my adversary.’ 
Luke 18:4
For a while he refused, but afterward he said to himself, ‘Though I neither fear God nor respect man, 
Luke 18:5
yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will give her justice, so that she will not beat me down by her continual coming.’ ” 
Luke 18:6
And the Lord said, “Hear what the unrighteous judge says. 
Luke 18:7
And will not God give justice to his elect, who cry to him day and night? Will he delay long over them? 
Luke 18:8
I tell you, he will give justice to them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth?” 
Luke 18:10
“Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. 
Luke 18:11
The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus: ‘God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. 
Luke 18:12
I fast twice a week; I give tithes of all that I get.’ 
Luke 18:13
But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, ‘God, be merciful to me, a sinner!’ 
Luke 18:14
I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted.” 
Luke 18:16
But Jesus called them to him, saying, “Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God. 
Luke 18:17
Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.” 
Luke 18:19
And Jesus said to him, “Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. 
Luke 18:20
You know the commandments: ‘Do not commit adultery, Do not murder, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor your father and mother.’ ” 
Luke 18:22
When Jesus heard this, he said to him, “One thing you still lack. Sell all that you have and distribute to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.” 
Luke 18:24
Jesus, seeing that he had become sad, said, “How difficult it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God! 
Luke 18:25
For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God.” 
Luke 18:27
But he said, “What is impossible with man is possible with God.” 
Luke 18:29
And he said to them, “Truly, I say to you, there is no one who has left house or wife or brothers or parents or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God, 
Luke 18:30
who will not receive many times more in this time, and in the age to come eternal life.” 
Luke 18:31
And taking the twelve, he said to them, “See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and everything that is written about the Son of Man by the prophets will be accomplished. 
Luke 18:32
For he will be delivered over to the Gentiles and will be mocked and shamefully treated and spit upon. 
Luke 18:33
And after flogging him, they will kill him, and on the third day he will rise.” 
Luke 18:41
“What do you want me to do for you?” He said, “Lord, let me recover my sight.” 
Luke 18:42
And Jesus said to him, “Recover your sight; your faith has made you well.” 
Luke 19:5
And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and said to him, “Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, for I must stay at your house today.” 
Luke 19:9
And Jesus said to him, “Today salvation has come to this house, since he also is a son of Abraham. 
Luke 19:10
For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost.” 
Luke 19:12
He said therefore, “A nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and then return. 
Luke 19:13
Calling ten of his servants, he gave them ten minas, and said to them, ‘Engage in business until I come.’ 
Luke 19:14
But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him, saying, ‘We do not want this man to reign over us.’ 
Luke 19:15
When he returned, having received the kingdom, he ordered these servants to whom he had given the money to be called to him, that he might know what they had gained by doing business. 
Luke 19:16
The first came before him, saying, ‘Lord, your mina has made ten minas more.’ 
Luke 19:17
And he said to him, ‘Well done, good servant! Because you have been faithful in a very little, you shall have authority over ten cities.’ 
Luke 19:18
And the second came, saying, ‘Lord, your mina has made five minas.’ 
Luke 19:19
And he said to him, ‘And you are to be over five cities.’ 
Luke 19:20
Then another came, saying, ‘Lord, here is your mina, which I kept laid away in a handkerchief; 
Luke 19:21
for I was afraid of you, because you are a severe man. You take what you did not deposit, and reap what you did not sow.’ 
Luke 19:22
He said to him, ‘I will condemn you with your own words, you wicked servant! You knew that I was a severe man, taking what I did not deposit and reaping what I did not sow? 
Luke 19:23
Why then did you not put my money in the bank, and at my coming I might have collected it with interest?’ 
Luke 19:24
And he said to those who stood by, ‘Take the mina from him, and give it to the one who has the ten minas.’ 
Luke 19:25
And they said to him, ‘Lord, he has ten minas!’ 
Luke 19:26
‘I tell you that to everyone who has, more will be given, but from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. 
Luke 19:27
But as for these enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slaughter them before me.’ ” 
Luke 19:30
saying, “Go into the village in front of you, where on entering you will find a colt tied, on which no one has ever yet sat. Untie it and bring it here. 
Luke 19:31
If anyone asks you, ‘Why are you untying it?’ you shall say this: ‘The Lord has need of it.’ ” 
Luke 19:40
He answered, “I tell you, if these were silent, the very stones would cry out.” 
Luke 19:42
saying, “Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace! But now they are hidden from your eyes. 
Luke 19:43
For the days will come upon you, when your enemies will set up a barricade around you and surround you and hem you in on every side 
Luke 19:44
and tear you down to the ground, you and your children within you. And they will not leave one stone upon another in you, because you did not know the time of your visitation.” 
Luke 19:46
saying to them, “It is written, ‘My house shall be a house of prayer,’ but you have made it a den of robbers.” 
Luke 20:3
He answered them, “I also will ask you a question. Now tell me, 
Luke 20:4
was the baptism of John from heaven or from man?” 
Luke 20:8
And Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.” 
Luke 20:9
And he began to tell the people this parable: “A man planted a vineyard and let it out to tenants and went into another country for a long while. 
Luke 20:10
When the time came, he sent a servant to the tenants, so that they would give him some of the fruit of the vineyard. But the tenants beat him and sent him away empty-handed. 
Luke 20:11
And he sent another servant. But they also beat and treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty-handed. 
Luke 20:12
And he sent yet a third. This one also they wounded and cast out. 
Luke 20:13
Then the owner of the vineyard said, ‘What shall I do? I will send my beloved son; perhaps they will respect him.’ 
Luke 20:14
But when the tenants saw him, they said to themselves, ‘This is the heir. Let us kill him, so that the inheritance may be ours.’ 
Luke 20:15
And they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. What then will the owner of the vineyard do to them? 
Luke 20:16
He will come and destroy those tenants and give the vineyard to others.” When they heard this, they said, “Surely not!” 
Luke 20:17
But he looked directly at them and said, “What then is this that is written: “ ‘The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone’? 
Luke 20:18
Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces, and when it falls on anyone, it will crush him.” 
Luke 20:24
“Show me a denarius. Whose likeness and inscription does it have?” They said, “Caesar’s.” 
Luke 20:25
He said to them, “Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.” 
Luke 20:34
And Jesus said to them, “The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage, 
Luke 20:35
but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and to the resurrection from the dead neither marry nor are given in marriage, 
Luke 20:36
for they cannot die anymore, because they are equal to angels and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection. 
Luke 20:37
But that the dead are raised, even Moses showed, in the passage about the bush, where he calls the Lord the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. 
Luke 20:38
Now he is not God of the dead, but of the living, for all live to him.” 
Luke 20:41
But he said to them, “How can they say that the Christ is David’s son? 
Luke 20:42
For David himself says in the Book of Psalms, “ ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at my right hand, 
Luke 20:43
until I make your enemies your footstool.” ’ 
Luke 20:44
David thus calls him Lord, so how is he his son?” 
Luke 20:46
“Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces and the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts, 
Luke 20:47
who devour widows’ houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation.” 
Luke 21:3
And he said, “Truly, I tell you, this poor widow has put in more than all of them. 
Luke 21:4
For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty put in all she had to live on.” 
Luke 21:6
“As for these things that you see, the days will come when there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down.” 
Luke 21:8
And he said, “See that you are not led astray. For many will come in my name, saying, ‘I am he!’ and, ‘The time is at hand!’ Do not go after them. 
Luke 21:9
And when you hear of wars and tumults, do not be terrified, for these things must first take place, but the end will not be at once.” 
Luke 21:10
Then he said to them, “Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. 
Luke 21:11
There will be great earthquakes, and in various places famines and pestilences. And there will be terrors and great signs from heaven. 
Luke 21:12
But before all this they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings and governors for my name’s sake. 
Luke 21:13
This will be your opportunity to bear witness. 
Luke 21:14
Settle it therefore in your minds not to meditate beforehand how to answer, 
Luke 21:15
for I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which none of your adversaries will be able to withstand or contradict. 
Luke 21:16
You will be delivered up even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and some of you they will put to death. 
Luke 21:17
You will be hated by all for my name’s sake. 
Luke 21:18
But not a hair of your head will perish. 
Luke 21:19
By your endurance you will gain your lives. 
Luke 21:20
“But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation has come near. 
Luke 21:21
Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those who are inside the city depart, and let not those who are out in the country enter it, 
Luke 21:22
for these are days of vengeance, to fulfill all that is written. 
Luke 21:23
Alas for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days! For there will be great distress upon the earth and wrath against this people. 
Luke 21:24
They will fall by the edge of the sword and be led captive among all nations, and Jerusalem will be trampled underfoot by the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled. 
Luke 21:25
“And there will be signs in sun and moon and stars, and on the earth distress of nations in perplexity because of the roaring of the sea and the waves, 
Luke 21:26
people fainting with fear and with foreboding of what is coming on the world. For the powers of the heavens will be shaken. 
Luke 21:27
And then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. 
Luke 21:28
Now when these things begin to take place, straighten up and raise your heads, because your redemption is drawing near.” 
Luke 21:29
And he told them a parable: “Look at the fig tree, and all the trees. 
Luke 21:30
As soon as they come out in leaf, you see for yourselves and know that the summer is already near. 
Luke 21:31
So also, when you see these things taking place, you know that the kingdom of God is near. 
Luke 21:32
Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all has taken place. 
Luke 21:33
Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. 
Luke 21:34
“But watch yourselves lest your hearts be weighed down with dissipation and drunkenness and cares of this life, and that day come upon you suddenly like a trap. 
Luke 21:35
For it will come upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth. 
Luke 21:36
But stay awake at all times, praying that you may have strength to escape all these things that are going to take place, and to stand before the Son of Man.” 
Luke 22:8
So Jesus sent Peter and John, saying, “Go and prepare the Passover for us, that we may eat it.” 
Luke 22:10
He said to them, “Behold, when you have entered the city, a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him into the house that he enters 
Luke 22:11
and tell the master of the house, ‘The Teacher says to you, Where is the guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?’ 
Luke 22:12
And he will show you a large upper room furnished; prepare it there.” 
Luke 22:15
And he said to them, “I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. 
Luke 22:16
For I tell you I will not eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.” 
Luke 22:17
And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he said, “Take this, and divide it among yourselves. 
Luke 22:18
For I tell you that from now on I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes.” 
Luke 22:19
And he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them, saying, “This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me.” 
Luke 22:20
And likewise the cup after they had eaten, saying, “This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood. 
Luke 22:21
But behold, the hand of him who betrays me is with me on the table. 
Luke 22:22
For the Son of Man goes as it has been determined, but woe to that man by whom he is betrayed!” 
Luke 22:25
And he said to them, “The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and those in authority over them are called benefactors. 
Luke 22:26
But not so with you. Rather, let the greatest among you become as the youngest, and the leader as one who serves. 
Luke 22:27
For who is the greater, one who reclines at table or one who serves? Is it not the one who reclines at table? But I am among you as the one who serves. 
Luke 22:28
“You are those who have stayed with me in my trials, 
Luke 22:29
and I assign to you, as my Father assigned to me, a kingdom, 
Luke 22:30
that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. 
Luke 22:31
“Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you, that he might sift you like wheat, 
Luke 22:32
but I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers.” 
Luke 22:34
Jesus said, “I tell you, Peter, the rooster will not crow this day, until you deny three times that you know me.” 
Luke 22:35
And he said to them, “When I sent you out with no moneybag or knapsack or sandals, did you lack anything?” They said, “Nothing.” 
Luke 22:36
He said to them, “But now let the one who has a moneybag take it, and likewise a knapsack. And let the one who has no sword sell his cloak and buy one. 
Luke 22:37
For I tell you that this Scripture must be fulfilled in me: ‘And he was numbered with the transgressors.’ For what is written about me has its fulfillment.” 
Luke 22:38
And they said, “Look, Lord, here are two swords.” And he said to them, “It is enough.” 
Luke 22:40
And when he came to the place, he said to them, “Pray that you may not enter into temptation.” 
Luke 22:42
saying, “Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours, be done.” 
Luke 22:46
and he said to them, “Why are you sleeping? Rise and pray that you may not enter into temptation.” 
Luke 22:48
but Jesus said to him, “Judas, would you betray the Son of Man with a kiss?” 
Luke 22:51
But Jesus said, “No more of this!” And he touched his ear and healed him. 
Luke 22:52
Then Jesus said to the chief priests and officers of the temple and elders, who had come out against him, “Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs? 
Luke 22:53
When I was with you day after day in the temple, you did not lay hands on me. But this is your hour, and the power of darkness.” 
Luke 22:61
And the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the saying of the Lord, how he had said to him, “Before the rooster crows today, you will deny me three times.” 
Luke 22:67
“If you are the Christ, tell us.” But he said to them, “If I tell you, you will not believe, 
Luke 22:68
and if I ask you, you will not answer. 
Luke 22:69
But from now on the Son of Man shall be seated at the right hand of the power of God.” 
Luke 22:70
So they all said, “Are you the Son of God, then?” And he said to them, “You say that I am.” 
Luke 23:3
And Pilate asked him, “Are you the King of the Jews?” And he answered him, “You have said so.” 
Luke 23:28
But turning to them Jesus said, “Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. 
Luke 23:29
For behold, the days are coming when they will say, ‘Blessed are the barren and the wombs that never bore and the breasts that never nursed!’ 
Luke 23:30
Then they will begin to say to the mountains, ‘Fall on us,’ and to the hills, ‘Cover us.’ 
Luke 23:31
For if they do these things when the wood is green, what will happen when it is dry?” 
Luke 23:34
And Jesus said, “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.” And they cast lots to divide his garments. 
Luke 23:43
And he said to him, “Truly, I say to you, today you will be with me in Paradise.” 
Luke 23:46
Then Jesus, calling out with a loud voice, said, “Father, into your hands I commit my spirit!” And having said this he breathed his last. 
Luke 24:17
And he said to them, “What is this conversation that you are holding with each other as you walk?” And they stood still, looking sad. 
Luke 24:19
And he said to them, “What things?” And they said to him, “Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, a man who was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people, 
Luke 24:25
And he said to them, “O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken! 
Luke 24:26
Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory?” 
Luke 24:36
As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood among them, and said to them, “Peace to you!” 
Luke 24:38
And he said to them, “Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts? 
Luke 24:39
See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Touch me, and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have.” 
Luke 24:41
And while they still disbelieved for joy and were marveling, he said to them, “Have you anything here to eat?” 
Luke 24:44
Then he said to them, “These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled.” 
Luke 24:46
and said to them, “Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise from the dead, 
Luke 24:47
and that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. 
Luke 24:48
You are witnesses of these things. 
Luke 24:49
And behold, I am sending the promise of my Father upon you. But stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high.” 
John 1:38
Jesus turned and saw them following and said to them, “What are you seeking?” And they said to him, “Rabbi” (which means Teacher), “where are you staying?” 
John 1:39
He said to them, “Come and you will see.” So they came and saw where he was staying, and they stayed with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour. 
John 1:42
He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, “You are Simon the son of John. You shall be called Cephas” (which means Peter). 
John 1:43
The next day Jesus decided to go to Galilee. He found Philip and said to him, “Follow me.” 
John 1:47
Jesus saw Nathanael coming toward him and said of him, “Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom there is no deceit!” 
John 1:48
Nathanael said to him, “How do you know me?” Jesus answered him, “Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you.” 
John 1:50
Jesus answered him, “Because I said to you, ‘I saw you under the fig tree,’ do you believe? You will see greater things than these.” 
John 1:51
And he said to him, “Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.” 
John 2:4
And Jesus said to her, “Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come.” 
John 2:7
Jesus said to the servants, “Fill the jars with water.” And they filled them up to the brim. 
John 2:8
And he said to them, “Now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast.” So they took it. 
John 2:16
And he told those who sold the pigeons, “Take these things away; do not make my Father’s house a house of trade.” 
John 2:19
Jesus answered them, “Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.” 
John 3:3
Jesus answered him, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God.” 
John 3:5
Jesus answered, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. 
John 3:6
That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. 
John 3:7
Do not marvel that I said to you, ‘You must be born again.’ 
John 3:8
The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit.” 
John 3:10
Jesus answered him, “Are you the teacher of Israel and yet you do not understand these things? 
John 3:11
Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know, and bear witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our testimony. 
John 3:12
If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? 
John 3:13
No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. 
John 3:14
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, 
John 3:15
that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. 
John 3:16
“For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. 
John 3:17
For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. 
John 3:18
Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. 
John 3:19
And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. 
John 3:20
For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. 
John 3:21
But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God.” 
John 4:7
A woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, “Give me a drink.” 
John 4:10
Jesus answered her, “If you knew the gift of God, and who it is that is saying to you, ‘Give me a drink,’ you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water.” 
John 4:13
Jesus said to her, “Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again, 
John 4:14
but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life.” 
John 4:16
Jesus said to her, “Go, call your husband, and come here.” 
John 4:17
The woman answered him, “I have no husband.” Jesus said to her, “You are right in saying, ‘I have no husband’; 
John 4:18
for you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband. What you have said is true.” 
John 4:21
Jesus said to her, “Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. 
John 4:22
You worship what you do not know; we worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. 
John 4:23
But the hour is coming, and is now here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him. 
John 4:24
God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth.” 
John 4:26
Jesus said to her, “I who speak to you am he.” 
John 4:32
But he said to them, “I have food to eat that you do not know about.” 
John 4:34
Jesus said to them, “My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. 
John 4:35
Do you not say, ‘There are yet four months, then comes the harvest’? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes, and see that the fields are white for harvest. 
John 4:36
Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that sower and reaper may rejoice together. 
John 4:37
For here the saying holds true, ‘One sows and another reaps.’ 
John 4:38
I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor.” 
John 4:48
So Jesus said to him, “Unless you see signs and wonders you will not believe.” 
John 4:50
Jesus said to him, “Go; your son will live.” The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way. 
John 4:53
The father knew that was the hour when Jesus had said to him, “Your son will live.” And he himself believed, and all his household. 
John 5:6
When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him, “Do you want to be healed?” 
John 5:8
Jesus said to him, “Get up, take up your bed, and walk.” 
John 5:11
But he answered them, “The man who healed me, that man said to me, ‘Take up your bed, and walk.’ ” 
John 5:14
Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, “See, you are well! Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you.” 
John 5:17
But Jesus answered them, “My Father is working until now, and I am working.” 
John 5:19
So Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. 
John 5:20
For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself is doing. And greater works than these will he show him, so that you may marvel. 
John 5:21
For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom he will. 
John 5:22
The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son, 
John 5:23
that all may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. 
John 5:24
Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. 
John 5:25
“Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. 
John 5:26
For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. 
John 5:27
And he has given him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man. 
John 5:28
Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice 
John 5:29
and come out, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. 
John 5:30
“I can do nothing on my own. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I seek not my own will but the will of him who sent me. 
John 5:31
If I alone bear witness about myself, my testimony is not true. 
John 5:32
There is another who bears witness about me, and I know that the testimony that he bears about me is true. 
John 5:33
You sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth. 
John 5:34
Not that the testimony that I receive is from man, but I say these things so that you may be saved. 
John 5:35
He was a burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light. 
John 5:36
But the testimony that I have is greater than that of John. For the works that the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I am doing, bear witness about me that the Father has sent me. 
John 5:37
And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about me. His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, 
John 5:38
and you do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he has sent. 
John 5:39
You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life; and it is they that bear witness about me, 
John 5:40
yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life. 
John 5:41
I do not receive glory from people. 
John 5:42
But I know that you do not have the love of God within you. 
John 5:43
I have come in my Father’s name, and you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him. 
John 5:44
How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? 
John 5:45
Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you: Moses, on whom you have set your hope. 
John 5:46
For if you believed Moses, you would believe me; for he wrote of me. 
John 5:47
But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words?” 
John 6:5
Lifting up his eyes, then, and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him, Jesus said to Philip, “Where are we to buy bread, so that these people may eat?” 
John 6:10
Jesus said, “Have the people sit down.” Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, about five thousand in number. 
John 6:12
And when they had eaten their fill, he told his disciples, “Gather up the leftover fragments, that nothing may be lost.” 
John 6:20
But he said to them, “It is I; do not be afraid.” 
John 6:26
Jesus answered them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me, not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves. 
John 6:27
Do not work for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal.” 
John 6:29
Jesus answered them, “This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent.” 
John 6:32
Jesus then said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. 
John 6:33
For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.” 
John 6:35
Jesus said to them, “I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. 
John 6:36
But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe. 
John 6:37
All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. 
John 6:38
For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will but the will of him who sent me. 
John 6:39
And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. 
John 6:40
For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.” 
John 6:41
So the Jews grumbled about him, because he said, “I am the bread that came down from heaven.” 
John 6:42
They said, “Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, ‘I have come down from heaven’?” 
John 6:43
Jesus answered them, “Do not grumble among yourselves. 
John 6:44
No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day. 
John 6:45
It is written in the Prophets, ‘And they will all be taught by God.’ Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me— 
John 6:46
not that anyone has seen the Father except he who is from God; he has seen the Father. 
John 6:47
Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. 
John 6:48
I am the bread of life. 
John 6:49
Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died. 
John 6:50
This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. 
John 6:51
I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh.” 
John 6:53
So Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. 
John 6:54
Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. 
John 6:55
For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. 
John 6:56
Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him. 
John 6:57
As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. 
John 6:58
This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread the fathers ate, and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever.” 
John 6:61
But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about this, said to them, “Do you take offense at this? 
John 6:62
Then what if you were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? 
John 6:63
It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. 
John 6:64
But there are some of you who do not believe.” (For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him.) 
John 6:65
And he said, “This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father.” 
John 6:67
So Jesus said to the Twelve, “Do you want to go away as well?” 
John 6:70
Jesus answered them, “Did I not choose you, the Twelve? And yet one of you is a devil.” 
John 7:6
Jesus said to them, “My time has not yet come, but your time is always here. 
John 7:7
The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify about it that its works are evil. 
John 7:8
You go up to the feast. I am not going up to this feast, for my time has not yet fully come.” 
John 7:16
So Jesus answered them, “My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. 
John 7:17
If anyone’s will is to do God’s will, he will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. 
John 7:18
The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory; but the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him there is no falsehood. 
John 7:19
Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. Why do you seek to kill me?” 
John 7:21
Jesus answered them, “I did one work, and you all marvel at it. 
John 7:22
Moses gave you circumcision (not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers), and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath. 
John 7:23
If on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me because on the Sabbath I made a man’s whole body well? 
John 7:24
Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment.” 
John 7:28
So Jesus proclaimed, as he taught in the temple, “You know me, and you know where I come from. But I have not come of my own accord. He who sent me is true, and him you do not know. 
John 7:29
I know him, for I come from him, and he sent me.” 
John 7:33
Jesus then said, “I will be with you a little longer, and then I am going to him who sent me. 
John 7:34
You will seek me and you will not find me. Where I am you cannot come.” 
John 7:36
What does he mean by saying, ‘You will seek me and you will not find me,’ and, ‘Where I am you cannot come’?” 
John 7:37
On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out, “If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. 
John 7:38
Whoever believes in me, as the Scripture has said, ‘Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water.’ ” 
John 8:7
And as they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to them, “Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her.” 
John 8:10
Jesus stood up and said to her, “Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you?” 
John 8:11
She said, “No one, Lord.” And Jesus said, “Neither do I condemn you; go, and from now on sin no more.”]] 
John 8:12
Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, “I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life.” 
John 8:14
Jesus answered, “Even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going, but you do not know where I come from or where I am going. 
John 8:15
You judge according to the flesh; I judge no one. 
John 8:16
Yet even if I do judge, my judgment is true, for it is not I alone who judge, but I and the Father who sent me. 
John 8:17
In your Law it is written that the testimony of two people is true. 
John 8:18
I am the one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about me.” 
John 8:19
They said to him therefore, “Where is your Father?” Jesus answered, “You know neither me nor my Father. If you knew me, you would know my Father also.” 
John 8:21
So he said to them again, “I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come.” 
John 8:22
So the Jews said, “Will he kill himself, since he says, ‘Where I am going, you cannot come’?” 
John 8:23
He said to them, “You are from below; I am from above. You are of this world; I am not of this world. 
John 8:24
I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am he you will die in your sins.” 
John 8:25
So they said to him, “Who are you?” Jesus said to them, “Just what I have been telling you from the beginning. 
John 8:26
I have much to say about you and much to judge, but he who sent me is true, and I declare to the world what I have heard from him.” 
John 8:28
So Jesus said to them, “When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am he, and that I do nothing on my own authority, but speak just as the Father taught me. 
John 8:29
And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him.” 
John 8:31
So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him, “If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, 
John 8:32
and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.” 
John 8:34
Jesus answered them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. 
John 8:35
The slave does not remain in the house forever; the son remains forever. 
John 8:36
So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed. 
John 8:37
I know that you are offspring of Abraham; yet you seek to kill me because my word finds no place in you. 
John 8:38
I speak of what I have seen with my Father, and you do what you have heard from your father.” 
John 8:39
They answered him, “Abraham is our father.” Jesus said to them, “If you were Abraham’s children, you would be doing the works Abraham did, 
John 8:40
but now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did. 
John 8:41
You are doing the works your father did.” They said to him, “We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father—even God.” 
John 8:42
Jesus said to them, “If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent me. 
John 8:43
Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. 
John 8:44
You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father’s desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. 
John 8:45
But because I tell the truth, you do not believe me. 
John 8:46
Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? 
John 8:47
Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God.” 
John 8:49
Jesus answered, “I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me. 
John 8:50
Yet I do not seek my own glory; there is One who seeks it, and he is the judge. 
John 8:51
Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death.” 
John 8:52
The Jews said to him, “Now we know that you have a demon! Abraham died, as did the prophets, yet you say, ‘If anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death.’ 
John 8:54
Jesus answered, “If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say, ‘He is our God.’ 
John 8:55
But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and I keep his word. 
John 8:56
Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad.” 
John 8:58
Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am.” 
John 9:3
Jesus answered, “It was not that this man sinned, or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. 
John 9:4
We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day; night is coming, when no one can work. 
John 9:5
As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.” 
John 9:7
and said to him, “Go, wash in the pool of Siloam” (which means Sent). So he went and washed and came back seeing. 
John 9:11
He answered, “The man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes and said to me, ‘Go to Siloam and wash.’ So I went and washed and received my sight.” 
John 9:35
Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him he said, “Do you believe in the Son of Man?” 
John 9:37
Jesus said to him, “You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you.” 
John 9:39
Jesus said, “For judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind.” 
John 9:41
Jesus said to them, “If you were blind, you would have no guilt; but now that you say, ‘We see,’ your guilt remains. 
John 10:1
“Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. 
John 10:2
But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. 
John 10:3
To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. 
John 10:4
When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. 
John 10:5
A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers.” 
John 10:7
So Jesus again said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. 
John 10:8
All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. 
John 10:9
I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. 
John 10:10
The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. 
John 10:11
I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. 
John 10:12
He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them. 
John 10:13
He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. 
John 10:14
I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me, 
John 10:15
just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep. 
John 10:16
And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd. 
John 10:17
For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. 
John 10:18
No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father.” 
John 10:25
Jesus answered them, “I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father’s name bear witness about me, 
John 10:26
but you do not believe because you are not among my sheep. 
John 10:27
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. 
John 10:28
I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. 
John 10:29
My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father’s hand. 
John 10:30
I and the Father are one.” 
John 10:32
Jesus answered them, “I have shown you many good works from the Father; for which of them are you going to stone me?” 
John 10:34
Jesus answered them, “Is it not written in your Law, ‘I said, you are gods’? 
John 10:35
If he called them gods to whom the word of God came—and Scripture cannot be broken— 
John 10:36
do you say of him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, ‘You are blaspheming,’ because I said, ‘I am the Son of God’? 
John 10:37
If I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe me; 
John 10:38
but if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe the works, that you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I am in the Father.” 
John 11:4
But when Jesus heard it he said, “This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it.” 
John 11:7
Then after this he said to the disciples, “Let us go to Judea again.” 
John 11:9
Jesus answered, “Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. 
John 11:10
But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him.” 
John 11:11
After saying these things, he said to them, “Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him.” 
John 11:14
Then Jesus told them plainly, “Lazarus has died, 
John 11:15
and for your sake I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him.” 
John 11:23
Jesus said to her, “Your brother will rise again.” 
John 11:25
Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, 
John 11:26
and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this?” 
John 11:34
And he said, “Where have you laid him?” They said to him, “Lord, come and see.” 
John 11:39
Jesus said, “Take away the stone.” Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, “Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days.” 
John 11:40
Jesus said to her, “Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God?” 
John 11:41
So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, “Father, I thank you that you have heard me. 
John 11:42
I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me.” 
John 11:43
When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, “Lazarus, come out.” 
John 11:44
The man who had died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, “Unbind him, and let him go.” 
John 12:7
Jesus said, “Leave her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of my burial. 
John 12:8
For the poor you always have with you, but you do not always have me.” 
John 12:23
And Jesus answered them, “The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. 
John 12:24
Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit. 
John 12:25
Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. 
John 12:26
If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. 
John 12:27
“Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? ‘Father, save me from this hour’? But for this purpose I have come to this hour. 
John 12:28
Father, glorify your name.” Then a voice came from heaven: “I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again.” 
John 12:30
Jesus answered, “This voice has come for your sake, not mine. 
John 12:31
Now is the judgment of this world; now will the ruler of this world be cast out. 
John 12:32
And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself.” 
John 12:35
So Jesus said to them, “The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. 
John 12:36
While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light.” When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. 
John 12:44
And Jesus cried out and said, “Whoever believes in me, believes not in me but in him who sent me. 
John 12:45
And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. 
John 12:46
I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. 
John 12:47
If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the world but to save the world. 
John 12:48
The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. 
John 12:49
For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment—what to say and what to speak. 
John 12:50
And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me.” 
John 13:7
Jesus answered him, “What I am doing you do not understand now, but afterward you will understand.” 
John 13:8
Peter said to him, “You shall never wash my feet.” Jesus answered him, “If I do not wash you, you have no share with me.” 
John 13:10
Jesus said to him, “The one who has bathed does not need to wash, except for his feet, but is completely clean. And you are clean, but not every one of you.” 
John 13:11
For he knew who was to betray him; that was why he said, “Not all of you are clean.” 
John 13:12
When he had washed their feet and put on his outer garments and resumed his place, he said to them, “Do you understand what I have done to you? 
John 13:13
You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I am. 
John 13:14
If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s feet. 
John 13:15
For I have given you an example, that you also should do just as I have done to you. 
John 13:16
Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. 
John 13:17
If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. 
John 13:18
I am not speaking of all of you; I know whom I have chosen. But the Scripture will be fulfilled, ‘He who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me.’ 
John 13:19
I am telling you this now, before it takes place, that when it does take place you may believe that I am he. 
John 13:20
Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives the one I send receives me, and whoever receives me receives the one who sent me.” 
John 13:21
After saying these things, Jesus was troubled in his spirit, and testified, “Truly, truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me.” 
John 13:26
Jesus answered, “It is he to whom I will give this morsel of bread when I have dipped it.” So when he had dipped the morsel, he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. 
John 13:27
Then after he had taken the morsel, Satan entered into him. Jesus said to him, “What you are going to do, do quickly.” 
John 13:31
When he had gone out, Jesus said, “Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. 
John 13:32
If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and glorify him at once. 
John 13:33
Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek me, and just as I said to the Jews, so now I also say to you, ‘Where I am going you cannot come.’ 
John 13:34
A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another: just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. 
John 13:35
By this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.” 
John 13:36
Simon Peter said to him, “Lord, where are you going?” Jesus answered him, “Where I am going you cannot follow me now, but you will follow afterward.” 
John 13:38
Jesus answered, “Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times. 
John 14:1
“Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also in me. 
John 14:2
In my Father’s house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? 
John 14:3
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. 
John 14:4
And you know the way to where I am going.” 
John 14:6
Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. 
John 14:7
If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on you do know him and have seen him.” 
John 14:9
Jesus said to him, “Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, ‘Show us the Father’? 
John 14:10
Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works. 
John 14:11
Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves. 
John 14:12
“Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father. 
John 14:13
Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. 
John 14:14
If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. 
John 14:15
“If you love me, you will keep my commandments. 
John 14:16
And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever, 
John 14:17
even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. 
John 14:18
“I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you. 
John 14:19
Yet a little while and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. 
John 14:20
In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. 
John 14:21
Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him.” 
John 14:23
Jesus answered him, “If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. 
John 14:24
Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the word that you hear is not mine but the Father’s who sent me. 
John 14:25
“These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you. 
John 14:26
But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. 
John 14:27
Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. 
John 14:28
You heard me say to you, ‘I am going away, and I will come to you.’ If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I. 
John 14:29
And now I have told you before it takes place, so that when it does take place you may believe. 
John 14:30
I will no longer talk much with you, for the ruler of this world is coming. He has no claim on me, 
John 14:31
but I do as the Father has commanded me, so that the world may know that I love the Father. Rise, let us go from here. 
John 15:1
“I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser. 
John 15:2
Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. 
John 15:3
Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. 
John 15:4
Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. 
John 15:5
I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. 
John 15:6
If anyone does not abide in me he is thrown away like a branch and withers; and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned. 
John 15:7
If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. 
John 15:8
By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples. 
John 15:9
As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love. 
John 15:10
If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father’s commandments and abide in his love. 
John 15:11
These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. 
John 15:12
“This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. 
John 15:13
Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. 
John 15:14
You are my friends if you do what I command you. 
John 15:15
No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you. 
John 15:16
You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you. 
John 15:17
These things I command you, so that you will love one another. 
John 15:18
“If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you. 
John 15:19
If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. 
John 15:20
Remember the word that I said to you: ‘A servant is not greater than his master.’ If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. 
John 15:21
But all these things they will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know him who sent me. 
John 15:22
If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have been guilty of sin, but now they have no excuse for their sin. 
John 15:23
Whoever hates me hates my Father also. 
John 15:24
If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin, but now they have seen and hated both me and my Father. 
John 15:25
But the word that is written in their Law must be fulfilled: ‘They hated me without a cause.’ 
John 15:26
“But when the Helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me. 
John 15:27
And you also will bear witness, because you have been with me from the beginning. 
John 16:1
“I have said all these things to you to keep you from falling away. 
John 16:2
They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God. 
John 16:3
And they will do these things because they have not known the Father, nor me. 
John 16:4
But I have said these things to you, that when their hour comes you may remember that I told them to you. “I did not say these things to you from the beginning, because I was with you. 
John 16:5
But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, ‘Where are you going?’ 
John 16:6
But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. 
John 16:7
Nevertheless, I tell you the truth: it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the Helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. 
John 16:8
And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment: 
John 16:9
concerning sin, because they do not believe in me; 
John 16:10
concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will see me no longer; 
John 16:11
concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged. 
John 16:12
“I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. 
John 16:13
When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. 
John 16:14
He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you. 
John 16:15
All that the Father has is mine; therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you. 
John 16:16
“A little while, and you will see me no longer; and again a little while, and you will see me.” 
John 16:17
So some of his disciples said to one another, “What is this that he says to us, ‘A little while, and you will not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me’; and, ‘because I am going to the Father’?” 
John 16:18
So they were saying, “What does he mean by ‘a little while’? We do not know what he is talking about.” 
John 16:19
Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him, so he said to them, “Is this what you are asking yourselves, what I meant by saying, ‘A little while and you will not see me, and again a little while and you will see me’? 
John 16:20
Truly, truly, I say to you, you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will turn into joy. 
John 16:21
When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come, but when she has delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish, for joy that a human being has been born into the world. 
John 16:22
So also you have sorrow now, but I will see you again, and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you. 
John 16:23
In that day you will ask nothing of me. Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. 
John 16:24
Until now you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full. 
John 16:25
“I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech but will tell you plainly about the Father. 
John 16:26
In that day you will ask in my name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf; 
John 16:27
for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have believed that I came from God. 
John 16:28
I came from the Father and have come into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going to the Father.” 
John 16:31
Jesus answered them, “Do you now believe? 
John 16:32
Behold, the hour is coming, indeed it has come, when you will be scattered, each to his own home, and will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me. 
John 16:33
I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world.” 
John 17:1
When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, “Father, the hour has come; glorify your Son that the Son may glorify you, 
John 17:2
since you have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. 
John 17:3
And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. 
John 17:4
I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. 
John 17:5
And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. 
John 17:6
“I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. 
John 17:7
Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you. 
John 17:8
For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you; and they have believed that you sent me. 
John 17:9
I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. 
John 17:10
All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. 
John 17:11
And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are one. 
John 17:12
While I was with them, I kept them in your name, which you have given me. I have guarded them, and not one of them has been lost except the son of destruction, that the Scripture might be fulfilled. 
John 17:13
But now I am coming to you, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. 
John 17:14
I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. 
John 17:15
I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. 
John 17:16
They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. 
John 17:17
Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth. 
John 17:18
As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. 
John 17:19
And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth. 
John 17:20
“I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, 
John 17:21
that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. 
John 17:22
The glory that you have given me I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one, 
John 17:23
I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. 
John 17:24
Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of the world. 
John 17:25
O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know you, and these know that you have sent me. 
John 17:26
I made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known, that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them.” 
John 18:4
Then Jesus, knowing all that would happen to him, came forward and said to them, “Whom do you seek?” 
John 18:5
They answered him, “Jesus of Nazareth.” Jesus said to them, “I am he.” Judas, who betrayed him, was standing with them. 
John 18:6
When Jesus said to them, “I am he,” they drew back and fell to the ground. 
John 18:7
So he asked them again, “Whom do you seek?” And they said, “Jesus of Nazareth.” 
John 18:8
Jesus answered, “I told you that I am he. So, if you seek me, let these men go.” 
John 18:9
This was to fulfill the word that he had spoken: “Of those whom you gave me I have lost not one.” 
John 18:11
So Jesus said to Peter, “Put your sword into its sheath; shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me?” 
John 18:20
Jesus answered him, “I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in synagogues and in the temple, where all Jews come together. I have said nothing in secret. 
John 18:21
Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me what I said to them; they know what I said.” 
John 18:23
Jesus answered him, “If what I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong; but if what I said is right, why do you strike me?” 
John 18:34
Jesus answered, “Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me?” 
John 18:36
Jesus answered, “My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from the world.” 
John 18:37
Then Pilate said to him, “So you are a king?” Jesus answered, “You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.” 
John 19:11
Jesus answered him, “You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. Therefore he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin.” 
John 19:26
When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, “Woman, behold, your son!” 
John 19:27
Then he said to the disciple, “Behold, your mother!” And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home. 
John 19:28
After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said (to fulfill the Scripture), “I thirst.” 
John 19:30
When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, “It is finished,” and he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. 
John 20:15
Jesus said to her, “Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking?” Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, “Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away.” 
John 20:16
Jesus said to her, “Mary.” She turned and said to him in Aramaic, “Rabboni!” (which means Teacher). 
John 20:17
Jesus said to her, “Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father; but go to my brothers and say to them, ‘I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God.’ ” 
John 20:19
On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, “Peace be with you.” 
John 20:21
Jesus said to them again, “Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you.” 
John 20:22
And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, “Receive the Holy Spirit. 
John 20:23
If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them; if you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld.” 
John 20:26
Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, “Peace be with you.” 
John 20:27
Then he said to Thomas, “Put your finger here, and see my hands; and put out your hand, and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe.” 
John 20:29
Jesus said to him, “Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed.” 
John 21:5
Jesus said to them, “Children, do you have any fish?” They answered him, “No.” 
John 21:6
He said to them, “Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some.” So they cast it, and now they were not able to haul it in, because of the quantity of fish. 
John 21:10
Jesus said to them, “Bring some of the fish that you have just caught.” 
John 21:12
Jesus said to them, “Come and have breakfast.” Now none of the disciples dared ask him, “Who are you?” They knew it was the Lord. 
John 21:15
When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, “Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these?” He said to him, “Yes, Lord; you know that I love you.” He said to him, “Feed my lambs.” 
John 21:16
He said to him a second time, “Simon, son of John, do you love me?” He said to him, “Yes, Lord; you know that I love you.” He said to him, “Tend my sheep.” 
John 21:17
He said to him the third time, “Simon, son of John, do you love me?” Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, “Do you love me?” and he said to him, “Lord, you know everything; you know that I love you.” Jesus said to him, “Feed my sheep. 
John 21:18
Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted, but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go.” 
John 21:19
(This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God.) And after saying this he said to him, “Follow me.” 
John 21:22
Jesus said to him, “If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me!” 
John 21:23
So the saying spread abroad among the brothers that this disciple was not to die; yet Jesus did not say to him that he was not to die, but, “If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you?” 
Acts 1:4
And while staying with them he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which, he said, “you heard from me; 
Acts 1:5
for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now.” 
Acts 1:7
He said to them, “It is not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority. 
Acts 1:8
But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.” 
Acts 9:4
And falling to the ground he heard a voice saying to him, “Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?” 
Acts 9:5
And he said, “Who are you, Lord?” And he said, “I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. 
Acts 9:6
But rise and enter the city, and you will be told what you are to do.” 
Acts 9:11
And the Lord said to him, “Rise and go to the street called Straight, and at the house of Judas look for a man of Tarsus named Saul, for behold, he is praying, 
Acts 9:12
and he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias come in and lay his hands on him so that he might regain his sight.” 
Acts 9:15
But the Lord said to him, “Go, for he is a chosen instrument of mine to carry my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel. 
Acts 9:16
For I will show him how much he must suffer for the sake of my name.” 
Acts 10:13
And there came a voice to him: “Rise, Peter; kill and eat.” 
Acts 10:15
And the voice came to him again a second time, “What God has made clean, do not call common.” 
Acts 11:7
And I heard a voice saying to me, ‘Rise, Peter; kill and eat.’ 
Acts 11:9
But the voice answered a second time from heaven, ‘What God has made clean, do not call common.’ 
Acts 11:16
And I remembered the word of the Lord, how he said, ‘John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.’ 
Acts 18:9
And the Lord said to Paul one night in a vision, “Do not be afraid, but go on speaking and do not be silent, 
Acts 18:10
for I am with you, and no one will attack you to harm you, for I have many in this city who are my people.” 
Acts 20:35
In all things I have shown you that by working hard in this way we must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he himself said, ‘It is more blessed to give than to receive.’ ” 
Acts 22:7
And I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?’ 
Acts 22:8
And I answered, ‘Who are you, Lord?’ And he said to me, ‘I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting.’ 
Acts 22:10
And I said, ‘What shall I do, Lord?’ And the Lord said to me, ‘Rise, and go into Damascus, and there you will be told all that is appointed for you to do.’ 
Acts 22:18
and saw him saying to me, ‘Make haste and get out of Jerusalem quickly, because they will not accept your testimony about me.’ 
Acts 22:21
And he said to me, ‘Go, for I will send you far away to the Gentiles.’ ” 
Acts 23:11
The following night the Lord stood by him and said, “Take courage, for as you have testified to the facts about me in Jerusalem, so you must testify also in Rome.” 
Acts 26:14
And when we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language, ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads.’ 
Acts 26:15
And I said, ‘Who are you, Lord?’ And the Lord said, ‘I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. 
Acts 26:16
But rise and stand upon your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a servant and witness to the things in which you have seen me and to those in which I will appear to you, 
Acts 26:17
delivering you from your people and from the Gentiles—to whom I am sending you 
Acts 26:18
to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me.’ 
1 Corinthians 11:24
and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, “This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.” 
1 Corinthians 11:25
In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.” 
2 Corinthians 12:9
But he said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. 
1 Timothy 5:18
For the Scripture says, “You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain,” and, “The laborer deserves his wages.” 
Revelation 1:11
saying, “Write what you see in a book and send it to the seven churches, to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamum and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea.” 
Revelation 1:17
When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. But he laid his right hand on me, saying, “Fear not, I am the first and the last, 
Revelation 1:18
and the living one. I died, and behold I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of Death and Hades. 
Revelation 1:19
Write therefore the things that you have seen, those that are and those that are to take place after this. 
Revelation 1:20
As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches. 
Revelation 2:1
“To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: ‘The words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand, who walks among the seven golden lampstands. 
Revelation 2:2
“ ‘I know your works, your toil and your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false. 
Revelation 2:3
I know you are enduring patiently and bearing up for my name’s sake, and you have not grown weary. 
Revelation 2:4
But I have this against you, that you have abandoned the love you had at first. 
Revelation 2:5
Remember therefore from where you have fallen; repent, and do the works you did at first. If not, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent. 
Revelation 2:6
Yet this you have: you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. 
Revelation 2:7
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will grant to eat of the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God.’ 
Revelation 2:8
“And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write: ‘The words of the first and the last, who died and came to life. 
Revelation 2:9
“ ‘I know your tribulation and your poverty (but you are rich) and the slander of those who say that they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan. 
Revelation 2:10
Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested, and for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life. 
Revelation 2:11
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The one who conquers will not be hurt by the second death.’ 
Revelation 2:12
“And to the angel of the church in Pergamum write: ‘The words of him who has the sharp two-edged sword. 
Revelation 2:13
“ ‘I know where you dwell, where Satan’s throne is. Yet you hold fast my name, and you did not deny my faith even in the days of Antipas my faithful witness, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells. 
Revelation 2:14
But I have a few things against you: you have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols and practice sexual immorality. 
Revelation 2:15
So also you have some who hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans. 
Revelation 2:16
Therefore repent. If not, I will come to you soon and war against them with the sword of my mouth. 
Revelation 2:17
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, with a new name written on the stone that no one knows except the one who receives it.’ 
Revelation 2:18
“And to the angel of the church in Thyatira write: ‘The words of the Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and whose feet are like burnished bronze. 
Revelation 2:19
“ ‘I know your works, your love and faith and service and patient endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first. 
Revelation 2:20
But I have this against you, that you tolerate that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess and is teaching and seducing my servants to practice sexual immorality and to eat food sacrificed to idols. 
Revelation 2:21
I gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent of her sexual immorality. 
Revelation 2:22
Behold, I will throw her onto a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her I will throw into great tribulation, unless they repent of her works, 
Revelation 2:23
and I will strike her children dead. And all the churches will know that I am he who searches mind and heart, and I will give to each of you according to your works. 
Revelation 2:24
But to the rest of you in Thyatira, who do not hold this teaching, who have not learned what some call the deep things of Satan, to you I say, I do not lay on you any other burden. 
Revelation 2:25
Only hold fast what you have until I come. 
Revelation 2:26
The one who conquers and who keeps my works until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations, 
Revelation 2:27
and he will rule them with a rod of iron, as when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I myself have received authority from my Father. 
Revelation 2:28
And I will give him the morning star. 
Revelation 2:29
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’ 
Revelation 3:1
“And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: ‘The words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. “ ‘I know your works. You have the reputation of being alive, but you are dead. 
Revelation 3:2
Wake up, and strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I have not found your works complete in the sight of my God. 
Revelation 3:3
Remember, then, what you received and heard. Keep it, and repent. If you will not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against you. 
Revelation 3:4
Yet you have still a few names in Sardis, people who have not soiled their garments, and they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy. 
Revelation 3:5
The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the book of life. I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels. 
Revelation 3:6
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’ 
Revelation 3:7
“And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: ‘The words of the holy one, the true one, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, who shuts and no one opens. 
Revelation 3:8
“ ‘I know your works. Behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name. 
Revelation 3:9
Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and are not, but lie—behold, I will make them come and bow down before your feet, and they will learn that I have loved you. 
Revelation 3:10
Because you have kept my word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that is coming on the whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth. 
Revelation 3:11
I am coming soon. Hold fast what you have, so that no one may seize your crown. 
Revelation 3:12
The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it, and I will write on him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down from my God out of heaven, and my own new name. 
Revelation 3:13
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’ 
Revelation 3:14
“And to the angel of the church in Laodicea write: ‘The words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of God’s creation. 
Revelation 3:15
“ ‘I know your works: you are neither cold nor hot. Would that you were either cold or hot! 
Revelation 3:16
So, because you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth. 
Revelation 3:17
For you say, I am rich, I have prospered, and I need nothing, not realizing that you are wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked. 
Revelation 3:18
I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may be rich, and white garments so that you may clothe yourself and the shame of your nakedness may not be seen, and salve to anoint your eyes, so that you may see. 
Revelation 3:19
Those whom I love, I reprove and discipline, so be zealous and repent. 
Revelation 3:20
Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and eat with him, and he with me. 
Revelation 3:21
The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on his throne. 
Revelation 3:22
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’ ” 
Revelation 4:1
After this I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven! And the first voice, which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet, said, “Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this.” 
Revelation 16:15
(“Behold, I am coming like a thief! Blessed is the one who stays awake, keeping his garments on, that he may not go about naked and be seen exposed!”) 
Revelation 22:7
“And behold, I am coming soon. Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.” 
Revelation 22:12
“Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my recompense with me, to repay each one for what he has done. 
Revelation 22:13
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end.” 
Revelation 22:16
“I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you about these things for the churches. I am the root and the descendant of David, the bright morning star.” 
Revelation 22:20
He who testifies to these things says, “Surely I am coming soon.” Amen. Come, Lord Jesus! 


Exported from Logos Bible Software 5, 8:26 AM June 14, 2013.

